
THE HISTORY OF THE

SECOND DRAGOONS

"Royal Scots Greys"

[Illustration: Lady Butler

"Scotland for Ever."

By kind permission of the Artist, and by arrangement with the
proprietors of the Copyright, Messrs. S. Hildesheimer & Co. Ltd.]




                          THE HISTORY OF THE
                            SECOND DRAGOONS
                          "Royal Scots Greys"


                                  BY

                         EDWARD ALMACK, F.S.A.

                    _With Forty-four Illustrations_

                                LONDON
                                 1908




LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS.


    +Aberdeen University Library+, per +P. J. Anderson+, Esq.,
        Librarian

    +Edward Almack+, Esq., F.S.A.

    Mrs. +E. Almack+

    +E. P. Almack+, Esq., R.F.A.

    Miss +V. A. B. Almack+

    Miss +G. E. C. Almack+

    +W. W. C. Almack+, Esq.

    +Charles W. Almack+, Esq.

    +Army & Navy Stores+, Ltd., London, S.W.

    Lieut.-Col. +Ashburner+, late Queen's Bays

    His Grace The +Duke of Atholl, K.T.+, etc., etc.

    +C. B. Balfour+, Esq.

    +G. F. Barwick+, Esq., Superintendent, Reading Room, British
        Museum

    Lieut. +E. H. Bonham+, Royal Scots Greys

    Lieut. +M. Borwick+, Royal Scots Greys

    Messrs. +Bowering & Co.+, Booksellers, Plymouth

    Mr. +W. Brown,+ Bookseller, Edinburgh

    Major +C. B. Bulkeley-Johnson+, Royal Scots Greys

    Messrs. +Cazenove & Son+, London, W.C.

    Major +Edward F. Coates+, M.P., Tayles Hill, Ewell, Surrey

    Major +W. F. Collins+, Royal Scots Greys

    +W. J. Collins+, Esq., Royal Scots Greys

    Capt. +H.R.H. Prince Arthur of Connaught, K.G., G.C.V.O.+, Royal
        Scots Greys

    The Hon. +Henry H. Dalrymple+, Lochinch, Castle Kennedy,
        Wigtonshire

    +Cyril Davenport+, Esq., F.S.A.

    +J. Barrington Deacon+, Esq., Royal Western Yacht Club, Plymouth

    Messrs. +Douglas & Foulis+, Booksellers, Edinburgh

    +E. H. Druce+, Esq.

    Second Lieut. +Viscount Ebrington+, Royal Scots Greys

    Mr. +Francis Edwards+, Bookseller, London, W.

    +Lord Eglinton+, Eglinton Castle, Irvine, N.B.

    Lieut. +T. E. Estcourt+, Royal Scots Greys

    Capt. +R. D. Fordyce+, Royal Scots Greys

    Mr. +H. G. Gadney+, Bookseller, Oxford

    The +Galignani Library+, Booksellers, Paris

    +J. Hamilton+, Esq., Houldsworth, Castlebank, Lanark, N.B.

    Second Lieut. +E. J. Hardy+, Royal Scots Greys

    Lieut. +S. J. Hardy+, Royal Scots Greys

    Capt. +Claudius Shirley Harris+, 90, Woodstock Road, Oxford

    Capt. The Hon. +A. M. Henley+, 5th Lancers, York

    +Walter Johnson+, Esq., Armcliffe Hall, Northallerton

    Mr. +G. P. Johnston+, Bookseller, Edinburgh

    +Percy R. Laurie+, Esq., Royal Scots Greys

    Capt. +W. E. Lawrence+, Royal Scots Greys

    Major +A. Lawson+, Royal Scots Greys

    Major The Hon. +R. H. Lindsay+

    Capt. and Adj. +W. Long, D.S.O.+, Royal Scots Greys

    Lieut. +C. J. A. Maberly+, 5th Lancers

    Mrs. +N. Maberly+, 14 The Avenue, Clifton, Bristol

    Messrs. +Macniven & Wallace+, Booksellers, Edinburgh

    Lieut. +W. M. Duguid McCombie+, Royal Scots Greys

    Capt. +Geo. Middleton+, Royal Scots Greys, Wilderness, Kelmarsh,
        Northampton

    Col. +A. D. Miller+, D.S.O., Royal Scots Greys

    +W. R. Mitchell+, Esq., 68, Washington Place, New York, U.S.A.

    Lieut. +A. R. Moncrieff+, Royal Scots Greys

    Second Lieut. Hon. +F. C. Montgomerie+, Royal Scots Greys

    +Alexander Moring+, Esq.

    +Clement O. E. Nicholson+, Esq., late Royal Scots Greys

    +H. Stafford O'Brien+, Blatherwyche Park, Wansford,
        Northamptonshire

    +Cecil W. Otway+, Esq., Royal Scots Greys

    Second Lieut. +H. D. Pender+, Royal Scots Greys

    Lieut. +F. A. U. Pickering+, Royal Scots Greys

    +J. J. Readman+, Esq.

    Messrs. +Robson & Co.+, Booksellers, London, W.

    The Right Hon. The +Earl of Rosebery, K.G.+, etc., etc.

    Capt. Hon. +A. J. M. St. Clair+, Royal Scots Greys

    Mrs. +Sanderson+, "Glenlaggan," Parton, N.B.

    Major-General +H. Scobell, C.B.+, Commander 1st Cavalry Brigade,
        Aldershot

    Capt. +A. G. Seymour+, Royal Scots Greys

    The +Signet Library+, Edinburgh

    Col. +Smythe+, of Methven

    +J. M. F. Sprot+, Esq., of Riddell, Roxburghshire, Lieut. Royal
        Scots Greys

    +John Stansfeld+, Esq., late Capt. Royal Scots Greys, Dunninald,
        Montrose

    Capt. +F. Swetenham+, Royal Scots Greys

    +Toronto Public Library+

    Capt. +H. B. Towse+, Royal Scots Greys

    Col. +F. J. A. Wallace+, Arrandale, Ayre, N.B.

    Lieut.-Col. +Welby+, M.P., 26, Sloane Court, Chelsea, S.W.

    Col. +Coventry Williams+, late Royal Scots Greys

    Second Lieut. +J. M. Wilson+, Royal Scots Greys

    +A. B. Winch+, Esq., Royal Scots Greys

[Illustration: "+Ane Account deu be Thomas Dalzell of bins for his
fathers funerall, to George Porteous the 2 of Sept 1685.+"]




PREFACE.


In bidding farewell to this book before publication, I am most anxious
to thank with hearty sincerity all those who, as past or present
officers and friends of this historic regiment, have helped my
efforts. There are two names above all that I must most particularly
record--(i.) that of Colonel Coventry Williams, lately commanding
the Greys, who has helped in so many details, though I can only
particularly refer readers to pages 291, 292 and 293. Colonel Williams
is the half-brother of Captain Williams, a portrait of whom, as he
stands by his charger, I have been able to include in this volume, and
who, as named by Kinglake (quoted on page 78), brought the Greys out
of action at Balaclava. There, too, Kinglake refers to the anonymous
officer whose Crimean recollections are given on pages 80 to 84. That
officer has since died, and so, too, has Russell, the famous _Times_
correspondent, with whom he was exchanging affectionate greetings.
(ii.) In the next place I must record my gratitude to Major Lindsay,
who has shown the keen instinct native to the noble house of Crawford.
His grandfather opened his famous record with this quotation from
"Schir David Lyndesay of the Mont allias lyoun herauld king of Armes":--

    "Who that antique stories reads
    Consider may the famous deeds
    Of our nobil progenitours;
    Which should to us be right mirrours,
    Their virtuous deedis to ensue,
    And vicious living to eschew."

The fact is that to hold the King's commission in the Royal Scots Greys
inspires a host of chivalrous thoughts and memories. Picture the simple
pride shown in the laconic words quoted on page 293, "Greys, from your
right number off ten!" and see pages 52 to 74. Here are letters from
Francis Charlton Kinchant, who received his commission on 18th January,
1815, and was killed at Waterloo. After writing to a friend accounts
describing how zealously he was learning to practise the art of war,
he goes on: "The regiment is without doubt the best and the most crack
cavalry corps in the service. I don't think there is a private in it
under 5 feet 11 inches." The next personal allusion, describing the
uniform of the corps, is to his own father: "Our dress altogether is
extremely rich and consequently costs lots of money. The Court dress
coat alone is 40 guineas. It is covered with lace from head to foot.
The jackets are handsome, but they cost £15. 15. each. Every other
part of the equipment is equally as expensive. In fact we make a most
dashing appearance. I should like much to meet the old Buck at Bath or
Clifton. I do not think he would know his hopeful son."

It is interesting to identify the noble Colonel James Gardiner, killed
at Preston Pans, as an officer in the Greys. Of course the regiment has
always held a peculiarly interesting position. For instance, it does
not join the ordinary rota for foreign service. It shares with a very
few the privilege of having a special honorary Colonel-in-chief.

Before writing of Sir Thomas Dalyell, the first colonel of the
regiment, I wish to thank most cordially Mrs. Cornwall Dalyell of
The Binns, who most kindly allowed photographs to be taken of the
manuscripts of (and relics pertaining to) Sir Thomas Dalyell himself.

Thomas Dalyell or Dalzell, of Binns, was born about 1599, and seems
to have taken part in the Rochelle expedition in 1628, as captain in
the Earl of Morton's regiment. In 1640 he was serving under Major
Robert Monro at Aberdeen. He accompanied Monro in his expedition to
Ireland, 8th April, 1642, having obtained a commission as colonel to
command 2,500 men. On 6th May, 1651, he was appointed by the King as
General-Major of Foot, and fought at Worcester on 3rd September. He
was taken prisoner and committed to the Tower, but escaped to the
Continent. In March, 1654, he appeared off the northern coasts of
Scotland, and helped in the rebellion in the Highlands in that year.
Although a reward and free pardon were offered to anyone who would
give him up, dead or alive, he again escaped to the Continent, and
received from Charles a special letter of thanks, dated Cologne, 30th
December, 1654. On 19th July, 1666, he was appointed Commander-in-chief
in Scotland. Captain Crichton wrote of him: "He was bred up very hardy
from his youth; he never wore a peruke, nor did he shave his beard
since the murder of King Charles the First. He died on Sunday evening,
23rd August, 1685."

                                                                   E. A.


ERRATA.

    P. 76. _For_ "India" _read_ "Brighton, 1841, Exeter, 1842 and
        1843."

    P. 84, last line. _Add_ Middelburg, 1904.

    P. 102, l. 22. _For_ Capt. C. B. Bulkeley Johnston _read_ Capt.
        C. B. Bulkeley-Johnson.

    P. 226, l. 18. _For_ 1844 _read_ 1848.

    P. 292, sixth line from foot. _For_ "charged on a trout" _read_
        "changed on a trout."

    P. 293, l. 7. _After_ "Greys, from your right number off!" _add_
        "ten." (_Note._--See a variant of this story on p. 82.)

    (See also _Addenda_ to List of Officers Past and Present, on p.
        261.)

[Illustration: +A Letter to General Dalzell dated 30th December, 1654,
wholly in the King's own hand.+]




CONTENTS.


CHAPTER I

The title Dragoon--the beginning of the Royal Scots Greys (royal
warrants of 1672 and 1678)--the state of Scotland in 1678--warrants
appointing officers, 1678--order relating to three Independent Troops
of Dragoons--appointment of the Duke of Monmouth, 1679--appointment
of Thomas Dalzell, 1679--memoirs and experiences of Captain John
Crichton--murder of the Archbishop of St. Andrews--battle of
Bothwell Bridge--desperate fight in Airs Moss--warrant of Charles
II. regimenting six troops and establishing Royal Scots Greys,
1681--warrant of establishment, 1681--commission of Lord Charles
Murray, and of Thomas Dalzell as colonel, 1681--Creighton's account
of the coming of William III.--Creighton's imprisonment in the
Tolbooth--establishment of the regiment at accession of James II.
and William III.--the Greys proceed to Flanders, 1694--take part
in the campaigns of Marlborough, siege of Venloo, Stevenswaert,
Ruremond, Liege--brilliant rescue of treasure from French troops
by the Greys--their gallant capture of the enemy's post at
Schellenberg--the Greys take part in the battle of Blenheim, a cavalry
victory--contemporary account from Hare's journal.


CHAPTER II

The siege of Landau, 1704--British camp visited by the King of the
Romans--battle of the river Geet--Sir Walter Scott's praise of the
regiment--victory of Ramillies--the Greys defeat the Regiment du Roi at
Autreglize--strange history of "Mother Ross," a famous Amazon, wounded
as a trooper of the Greys at Ramillies--desperate battle of Malplaquet,
signal bravery of the Greys--battle of Oudenarde--exploit of the
Greys at Pont-à-Nache--sieges of Aire and Saint-Venant--end of the
campaign--fresh campaign in French Flanders--siege of Bouchain--French
sue for peace, 1712--Treaty of Utrecht, 1713--question of precedence,
1694--Greys rank as Second Dragoons, 1713--Greys take part in putting
down the Rebellion of the Old Pretender--and defeat Jacobites at
Strachell--Greys reviewed at Hounslow by George II.--suppression of
Kentish smugglers, 1737--Greys encamped in Windsor Forest--reviewed by
George II. on Kew Green--arrive at Dover--_British Military Journal_,
1799--heroism of the Greys at Dettingen--and Fontenoy--Greys capture
the White Standard--campaign in Flanders.


CHAPTER III

Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, 1748--short-sighted reduction of the Greys'
numbers--the brigade fire the shipping at St. Malo--Greys take part
in the capture of Cherbourg--notes from a Regimental Order Book,
1759--defeat of the French under Marshal Broglio at Zierenberg--account
of the battle in the _London Gazette_, 1760--surprise and complete
success of the night attack--signing of peace, 1763--Greys return
to England, and are reduced as usual!--Greys reviewed by George
III.--Greys during the French Revolution, 1793--war declared
against England by the Convention, 1793--siege of Valenciennes,
Dunkirk--magnificent charge of Greys at the battle of Tournay--return
to England--the folly of reduction again!--war with France, 1803--Greys
take part in the procession at Nelson's funeral--return of the Greys
to Scotland, 1807--the Greys reviewed by the Prince Regent, King of
Prussia, and Czar of Russia, in Hyde Park, 1814--Napoleon returns to
France, 1815.


CHAPTER IV

Records relating to Colonel Hamilton (originally James
Anderson)--account of Colonel Hamilton's heroism when wounded at
Waterloo--story of Colonel Hamilton (James Anderson) from _Good
Words_, 1866--letters by Cornet Kinchant before Waterloo, also letters
describing his death by treachery in the battle, and the vengeance
taken by Sergeant Ewart of his troop--great gallantry and success of
Sergeant Ewart--his capture of a French Eagle--extracts from a Waterloo
Journal, by Lieutenant A. J. Hamilton--copy of a letter from Lieutenant
A. J. Hamilton, written from the camp, near Mons--letter from Cornet
Clape, of the Greys, a week after the battle--letter from Lieutenant
Macmillan, Adjutant of the Scots Greys, at the battle of Waterloo,
giving an account of the part played at Waterloo by the Scots Greys.


CHAPTER V

Greys return to England, 1816--and are reduced in numbers, 1816 and
1821--Greys attend on George IV. in Scotland--Greys inspected by
Queen Adelaide, 1830--the Crimean campaign, account from the Historic
Register of the Second Dragoons, describing the Greys' action at
Balaclava--account given by Kinglake--account from the _Illustrated
London News_ of 1854--charges of the Light and the Heavy Brigade.


CHAPTER VI

Crimean campaign, _continued_--account written by a Crimean
officer of the Greys--decision to invade the Crimea--Greys embark
for Constantinople--French and British fleets in the harbour of
Sebastopol--victory of the Alma--Greys as the advanced guard of
the allied forces--Burgoyne's suggested plan of attack--the flank
march--Sir Edward Hamley's account, 1855--circumstances of the battle
of Balaclava sifted--the battle not merely 'a dash and a ride'--Sir
E. Hamley and the Heavy Brigade--subsequent home movements of the
regiment, 1857-1906.


CHAPTER VII

The Boer War--account taken from the Historical Records of the Royal
Scots Greys, 1899-1902--the Greys embark at Glasgow, 1899--the Greys
hold the line of the Orange River, December, 1899--messages from
the Queen--action at Koodoosburg--relief of Kimberley--the Queen's
telegram--Greys march to Paardeburg--Cronje's surrender--1st Squadron
Australian Horse attached to Greys--Greys take key of Boer position
at Bloemfontein--surrender of Bloemfontein--relief of Ladysmith--Army
Order by Lord Roberts--Greys march to relief of General Broadwood's
column at Sannah's Post--Greys take part in general advance of the
army to Pretoria--Greys dislodge enemy at Kalkheuvel Pass--Greys help
to release prisoners at Watervaal--reverse at Commando Nek--great
captures made by the Greys at Barberton--address by General French at
Ermelo--farewell order by General French--Greys take enemy's position
at Reit Kuil--Greys take part in holding the railway--lists of Greys'
casualties in 1900--engagement at Naauwpoort Hill--Greys cover
return of convoy at Kaalbult--Greys march to Johannesburg--farewell
address by General Gordon--operations under Lieut.-General
French in Eastern Transvaal against General Botha--engagement at
Boschman's Kop--Greys march to Vereeniging--crossing of the Assegai
River--telegram from the Commander-in-Chief to General French--Greys
capture guns--engagements at Idalia and Reitvlei--Boers attack Greys'
rearguard at Mooifontein, but are repulsed--regiment remounted
at Witbank--enemy engaged at Vierfontein, Straffontein, and Van
Dyks Post--enemy repulsed at Rustenburg--captures at Kleinfontein,
Brakspruit, and Vlaksplaats--continued sniping--successful ambush at
Wagons-pad Spruit--engagement at Damhoek--Greys protect S.A.C. building
blockhouses--Greys rush Boer laager at Schaap's Kraal--crossing of
the Buffalo River--many horses lost from exposure--Greys take part in
relief of Colonel Benson's column near Standerton--telegram from Lord
Kitchener--rearguard attacked at Rooipoort--captures at Tweefontein,
Wilmansrust, and Middelkraal--Greys take part in capture of Boers,
including Major Pretorius (Staats artillery), at Roodebloem--further
captures by Greys--losses of Greys in action at Klipfontein--list of
Greys' casualties in 1901--capture of Boers at Straffontein--losses of
Greys in action at Leeuwkop--Greys take part in drives at Balmoral,
Vlakfontein, Heidelburg, etc.--Peace signed--lists of Greys' casualties
in 1902 and during campaign.

+Uniform and Arms+

General Dalzell's action in obtaining cloth for uniforms--other
details of uniform, 1683-1704--inventory of clothes and accoutrements,
1706--regulation of George II. relating to the Greys' uniform,
1751--further changes, 1759-1788 (bearskins, 1768)--account of articles
of cavalry equipment furnished to recruits, 1803-1807--order to cut
hair short, 1808--changes in 1811 and 1812, badge of an eagle displayed
on the guidons--"Waterloo" added to guidons and grenadier caps to
commemorate the battle--changes in 1846 (officers' bearskin cap with
white hackle feather), 1864, and 1894.


CHAPTER VIII

Composition of the Greys at their first recorded muster in 1683, from
the original Roll in Edinburgh--pay of the regiment--account of money
paid by the Greys' Quartermaster in 1688, from an original document of
the Greys--List of Officers, past and present.


APPENDIX

Extracts from orders of the Scots Greys' Troop Orderly Book--notes
of Inspection Returns, from the Record Office--a notable prayer,
commending the Greys to favour--copies of two holograph letters of
Charles II. relating to Thos. Dalzell, and translation of General
Dalzell's Russian commission, furnished by Captain Lindsay--entry
from the original MS. in the General Register House, Edinburgh,
1685--extract from "Papers connected with the Royal Scots Dragoons,"
1696--1704-6 (two letters from General Dalzell)--extract from order in
Record Office, 1684--muster-roll, 1702-3--account of the Waterloo Ball,
from reprint in the _Globe_, 1906--extract from pamphlet, "Military
and Biographical Notices of the Fallen Heroes," 1815--extract from
contemporary pamphlet relating to cavalry losses at Waterloo--letter
of William Knox, 1759--anecdotes of the Greys--song, "The Bonnie Scots
Greys," by A. C. E. Welby--inscription on mural tablet in memory of
Lieut.-Colonel Sir Thomas Pate Hankin, Kt.--extract from letter written
by the Hon. Charles Hamilton to his brother, during the Westphalian
campaign--notes on Creichtoun's Memoirs, and on General Dalyell, by J.
B. Dalzell, Esq.




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.


                                                             _Facing Page_

  "+Scotland for Ever.+" By kind permission of the Artist, and by
  arrangement with the proprietors of the copyright, Messrs. S.
  Hildesheimer & Co., Ltd.                                  _Frontispiece_

  Facsimile of "Ane Account deu be Thomas Dalzell of Bins for his
  Fathers funerall, to George Porteous the 2 of Sept 1685"             ix.

  Facsimile of a letter to General Dalzell, dated 30th December, 1654,
  wholly in the King's own hand                                      xiii.

  "Generall Thomas Dalyell who served Charles the Second King of
  Great Brittaine as Major Generall of his Army at the Battle of
  Worcester and thereafter being taken prisoner by the Rebells after
  long imprisonment made his escape out of the Tower of London
  went to Muscovie where he served the Emperor of Russia as one
  of the Generals of his Forces against the Polanders and Tartars
  till the year 1665 when he was recalled by King Charles the second
  and thereafter did command His Majesties Forces at the defeat of
  the Rebells at Pentland Hills in Scotland and continued Lieutenant
  Generall in Scotland when His Majestie had any standing
  Forces in that Kingdom till the year of his death 1685 in the
  Raigne of our present Soveraigne James the second of Great
  Brittaine"                                                             1

  Facsimile of Charles II.'s Commission, dated 19th July, 1666,
  appointing "Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Captaine' of a Troupe of
  Horse"                                                                 2

  Facsimile of Charles II.'s Commission, dated 19th June, 1679,
  appointing "Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Lieutenant Generall' over
  all the Forces within our ancient Kingdome of Scotland"                6

  Facsimile of Charles II.'s Commission, dated 11th November, 1681,
  appointing "Lieutenant Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Colonell' of a
  Regiment of Dragoones to be formed out of the three Companies
  of Dragoones already standing in that our Kingdome"                    8

  Facsimile of Warrant of Charles II., granting "certain revenues to
  Thomas Dalzell as Lieutenant Generall in command of the
  Forces in Scotland"                                                   16

  Facsimile of James II.'s Commission, dated 30th March, 1685,
  appointing "Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Lieutenant Generall' over
  all our Forces within our ancient Kingdome of Scotland"               18

  Facsimile of Warrant of William and Mary, 1692, confirming the title
  "Our Royal Regiment of Scots Dragoons"                                20

  His Excellency, John, Earl of Stair                                   21

  Facsimile of "Signatures of Colonel Agnew's Troop, for receipt of
  Bountie Monie for Campaigne of 1704"                                  29

  Field Marshal John Dalrymple, 2nd Earl of Stair, K.T. Born 1673;
  died 1747. From the painting at Lochinch                              30

  Grenadier Cap of the Scots Greys, 1743, preserved in the Museum of
  the United Service Institution                                        36

  Farm Buildings, Lochinch, Castle Kennedy, Wigtonshire. The farm
  buildings were used as barracks by the Scots Greys under
  command of John, Earl of Stair                                        36

  Charles Ewart, Sergeant in the Scots Greys, carrying off the Eagle
  belonging to one of the most distinguished divisions of the
  French Infantry at the Battle of Waterloo                             60

  The Grave of Ewart, who captured the Eagle at Waterloo                61

  Facsimile of "Muster Role of Waterloo Men 2nd (or R.N.B.)
  Regiment of Dragoons." Rouen, 11th September, 1815                64, 65

  Facsimile of "Signatures of Officers present of the 2nd (or R.N.B.)
  Regiment of Dragoons entitled to share of Prize Money granted
  for the Waterloo Campaign." Canterbury, 29th May, 1817                69

  Hoof of a Charger of the Greys at Balaclava                           76

  Captain Toosey Williams                                               78

  Memorial to the Memory of Fallen Heroes of the Royal Scots Greys,
  Edinburgh                                                             85

  From a Coloured Drawing in the British Museum, dated 1742            136

  General Dalzell's Comb                                               139

  General Thomas Dalzell's Dagger and Spoon                            140

  An Officer of the Royal Scots Greys, about 1834. From a rare print
  kindly lent by Messrs. Robson & Co.                                  141

  An Officer in Levée Dress, Crimean period                            142

  Anitchkoff Palace, St. Petersburg, 2nd of February, 1895--The
  Emperor of Russia accepting the Picture, presented by the
  Officers, of H.I.M. as Colonel-in-Chief marching past at
  the head of the Regiment                                             155

  Colonel Clarke                                                       173

  John, Earl of Craufurd                                               176

  Lieutenant-Colonel Sir Thomas Hankin, present with the Greys at
  Waterloo                                                             201

  Lieutenant-Colonel Hippisley                                         205

  Lieutenant-Colonel James Charles Maberly                             220

  Lord Charles Murray, 1st Earl of Dunmore                             227

  H.I.M. the Emperor of Russia, Colonel-in-Chief of the Scots Greys    229

  General Nugent                                                       230

  Colonel Sanderson                                                    241

  Colonel H. J. Scobell                                                242

  The Right Honourable John, Earl of Stair                             246

  Colonel Wallace                                                      255

  Lieutenant-Colonel Welby                                             256

  Lieutenant-Colonel Coventry Williams                                 258

  Regimental Standards                                                 282




                          _Colonel-in-Chief_

        +His Imperial Majesty Nicholas II., Emperor of Russia+

                               _Colonel_

                     Major-General A. S. M. Browne

                         _Lieutenant-Colonel_

                           Coventry Williams

                      _Major_ (_2nd in command_)

                             A. D. Miller

                               _Majors_

                        C. B. Bulkeley-Johnson
                             W. F. Collins
                               A. Lawson

                              _Captains_

                          Hon. R. H. Lindsay
                             A. G. Seymour
                        Hon. A. J. M. St. Clair
                             F. Swetenham
                             R. D. Fordyce
                                W. Long
                            [1]H. B. Towse
                            G. G. Middleton
                            W. E. Lawrence
                 [1]H.R.H. Prince Arthur of Connaught

                             _Lieutenants_

                        W. McC. Duguid McCombie
                           Hon. A. M. Henley
                             C. R. Pawson
                          F. A. U. Pickering
                              S. J. Hardy
                            J. M. F. Sprot
                          [1]A. R. Moncrieff
                            [1]E. H. Bonham
                            [1]P. R. Laurie
                       [1]M. J. C. S. Johnstone
                            [1]A. B. Winch

                         _Second Lieutenants_

                             [1]M. Borwick
                           [1]T. E. Estcourt
                           [1]J. J. Readman
                              E. J. Hardy
                             J. M. Wilson
                         [1]Viscount Ebrington

                              _Adjutant_

                             Capt. W. Long

                            _Riding Master_

                       G. Parker (Hon. Captain)

                           _Quarter Master_

                     T. M. Ross (Hon. Lieutenant)

[1] This list is taken from the June Army List and checked with that
for July, 1907. The officers marked with an asterisk are those who
joined while the book was passing through the press.

[Illustration: Generall Thomas Dalyell who served Charles the Second
King of Great Brittaine as Major Generall of his Army at the Battle
of Worcester and thereafter being taken prisoner by the Rebells after
long imprisonment made his escape out of the Tower of London went to
Muscovie where he served the Emperor of Russia as one of the Generals
of his Forces against the Polanders and Tartars till the year 1665 when
he was recalled by King Charles the second and thereafter did command
His Majesties Forces at the defeat of the Rebells at Pentland Hills
in Scotland and continued Lieutenant Generall in Scotland when His
Majestie had any standing Forces in that Kingdom till the year of his
death 1685 in the Raigne of our present Soveraigne James the second of
Great Brittaine.]

                          HISTORICAL RECORDS
                                OF THE
                          ROYAL SCOTS GREYS.




CHAPTER I.


In writing this record of the history of the Royal Scots Greys I have
aimed at giving scenes and characters as exactly as possible. I have,
therefore, used contemporary language without any modern editing. The
book will contain particulars relating to every officer who has ever
held a commission in the Regiment.

Before describing the origin of this famous Regiment, it will be well
to refer briefly to the title Dragoon. It will be noticed that in
the early official warrants, Horse, Foot, and Dragoons, are always
three distinct forces. The Dragoon was nearly allied to the Mounted
Infantryman, who, in modern times, has evoked such great public
interest. A captain was usually described as appointed to command, not
a troop, but a company.

On the breaking out of the war with Holland in 1672 a regiment of
Dragoons was raised; the pay was at a lower rate than the Horse, and
the men were armed as Infantry, except that a limited number carried
halberds instead of pikes, and the others muskets and bayonets, and a
few in each troop had pistols.

The warrant, dated 2nd April, 1672, requires that the new force--

  "shall be armed out of our stoares remaining within Our office of
  the Ordinance as followeth; that is to say, three corporalls, two
  serjeants, the gentlemen at armes, and twelve souldiers of each
  of the said twelve Troopes, are to have and carry each of them
  one halbard, and one case of pistolls with holsters; and the rest
  of the souldiers of the several Troopes aforesaid, are to have
  and to carry each of them one matchlocke musquet, with a collar
  of bandaliers, and also to have and to carry one bayonet or great
  knife. That each lieutenant have and carry one partizan, and that
  two drums be delivered out for each Troope of the said Regiment."

By warrants dated 21st May, 1678, two independent troops of Dragoons
were raised, their respective Captains being John Strachan and John
Inglis.

This was the beginning of the Royal Scots Greys.

On 23rd September, 1678, Viscount Kingstoun was commissioned to be
Captain of "a new company of Dragoons appointed by us to be forthwith
levyed."

Four days later, Francis Stuart, of Coldingham, was appointed
Lieutenant of this new company.

On July 24th, 1679, Francis Stuart became Captain of this new company
in succession to Viscount Kingstoun who resigned.

By Royal Warrant on the 25th of November, 1681, three troops were
ordered to be added to the three already raised, and the whole six
formed into a regiment. See page 13.

The following extract relates to the state of Scotland and proposed
increase of forces there. (State Papers--Scotland--Warrant Books, vol.
iv., folio 370):--

"CHARLES R.

  "Right trusty and welbeloued Cousins and Councellors.--Wee greet
  you well. After full and satisfactory information from the
  Lords commissionated by you here, of what has been done by you
  in our Service, Wee doe againe approve of your proceeding, and
  thank you for your care, assuring you of our favour, assistance,
  and protection, upon all occasions; and for the more effectual
  prosecution thereof, wee find it necessary to signify to you,
  and by you to our people there, that wee are firmly resolved to
  owne and assert our authority, so as may equally encourage you
  and discourage all such as by seditious Practices endeavour in
  aspersing you to lessen our Prerogative: And finding by good
  information that the Phanaticks there, expecting encouragement from
  such as oppose you, and taking advantage of the present juncture of
  affaires here, have of late with great insolence flocked together
  frequently and openly in ffield conventicles those Rendevouses of
  Rebellion, and haue dared to oppose our fforces, though wee neither
  heed nor doe fear such insolent attempts, yet from a just care of
  our own authority, and a kindnesse to our good subjects there, we
  haue thought fit to order that some more fforces may be trained;
  and for that effect wee haue commanded the Lords of our Treasury to
  take an effectuall course for providing what money wee shall find
  necessary for raising and maintaining those Troopes at our charge,
  And wee expect from you an exact and speedy Account of what number
  and quality of Troopes may be necessary there upon this occasion;
  to the end wee may direct commissions, and give such other orders
  as wee shall find requisite. For doing whereof this shall be your
  Warrant, and so wee bid you heartily ffarewell.

  "Given at our Court at Whitehall the 7th day of May 1678, and of
  our Reigne the 30th."

[Illustration: +Charles the Second's Commission dated 19th July, 1666+,

Appointing "Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Captaine' of a Troupe of
Horse, to be raised by you for Our Service, in the Regiment whereof
Lieut.-Generall Drumond is Colonell."]

Directed on the back thus:--

  "To our right trusty and welbeloved Cousins and Councellors ... our
  Privy Councell of our ancient Kingdome of Scotland."

The very next warrant makes John Strachan Captain of one of "ye two
companies of Dragoons to be forthwith leavied." It was followed under
the same date by others, one making John Inglis Captain of the other
company, one making John Lauder Lieutenant of Strachan's company, and
another making William Cleland Lieutenant of Inglis's company. Then
followed still two more, one appointing John Livingston Ensign in
Strachan's and the other, Henry Dundas, Ensign under Inglis.

"CHARLES R.

  "Charles the Second by yᵉ grace of God king of Scotland, england,
  france and Ireland Defender of yᵉ faith &c. to our trusty and
  welbeloved John Strachan greeting: Wee reposing speciall trust and
  confidence in your Loyalty, Courage and good Conduct, doe by these
  presents constitute and appoint you to be Captaine of one of yᵉ two
  Companies of Dragoones appointed by us to be forthwith leavied for
  our service in our ancient Kingdome of Scotland, which Company is
  to consist of one hundred men besides officers. You are therefore
  carefully to discharge the Duty of a Captaine by exercising yᵉ said
  Company in Armes, both Officers and soldiers, and keeping them in
  good order and Discipline. And wee doe hereby command them to obey
  you as their Captaine, and you likewise exactly to observe and
  follow all such Orders and Directions as you shall from time to
  time receive from Us, our Privy Councell, the Commander in chiefe
  of our fforces in that our Kingdome now or for the time being,
  or any other your superiour officer, according to the Rules and
  Discipline of Warre, in pursuance of yᵉ trust which wee doe hereby
  repose in you.

  "Given at our Court at Whitehall the 21th day of May 1678--and of
  our Reigne the 30th year."

The following order relates in part to the _three Independent Troopes
of Dragoones_. (War Office Miscellany Orders, vol. v., folio 179):--

  "Whereas his Majesty hath thought fitt to order the immediate
  Raiseing of three Regiments of Horse consisting of eight Troopes
  each Regiment, and sixty men in each Troope besides Officers: as
  also three Regiments of Foot consisting of four Companyes each
  Regiment, and one hundred men in each Company, besides officers;
  and one Regiment of Dragoons consisting of eight Troopes, and
  eighty men in each troope, besides officers, _and three other
  Independent Troopes of Dragoons_, of the like number; and three
  Troopes of Horse Granadiers, consisting of eighty men in one of the
  Troopes, and sixty men in each of the other two Troopes, besides
  officers.

  "You are to pass and allow the said Regiments, Troopes and
  Companies, according to the directions following.

  "The first muster of any of the troopes of Horse is to be from the
  officers first produceing twenty or more good men well mounted to
  be mustered, and the following musters shall be upon produceing
  five men with their Horses till the whole Troope be compleated. The
  officers are to be allowed and enter into Pay from their said first
  muster of Twenty.

  "The foot are to be mustered as any of them are raised, and the
  officers of each Company are to be allowed from the time they
  muster twenty.

  "The first muster of every Troope of Dragoones, is to be upon the
  officers produceing twenty-five good men suitably mounted, and the
  officers then are to be allowed, and the following musters shall
  be of eight men with their Horses till the troope be compleated.
  The first Muster of the Horse Granadiers is to be upon produceing
  thirty men well mounted and the officers then to be allowed, and
  the following Musters to be in the same manner as those of the
  Dragoons. The field officers of each Regiment are to be allowed
  from the first muster of their respective Companies, and you are to
  pay the staff officers from the time appointed for the Regiment to
  Rendezvous.

  "Given at the Court at Whitehall this 11th day of June 1679.

"+Monmouth.+

  "To Henry Howard, Esqre., Commissary General of the Musters."

The next is of varied interest, giving the Duke of Monmouth supreme
command, and urging to be kept informed by "flying packets." (Vol. v.,
page 156.)

"Whitehall, 11th June, 1679, at Midnight.

  "May it please your Lordship I am commanded by his Majesty to
  acquaint you that in pursuance of his Resolution to send some
  Supplyes from hence to you for suppressing the Rebellion now
  amongst the Phanaticks in the West of Scotland, he hath ordered
  a Regiment of ffoote to be presently embarqued to goe by Sea to
  Barwick together with cannon and ammunition sufficient, and his
  Majesty has ordered two Regiments of ffoote more to be presently
  leauied, the one to be commanded by the Lord Cavendish and the
  other by the Lord Gray of Wark, as also three Regiments of Horse
  under the command of the Duke of Monmouth, Duke of Albemarle,
  the Lord Gerard, Together with eight hundred Dragoons, There is
  likewise three troopes of Granadiers, and these last are to march
  towards Scotland to-morrow. The King has also thought fit to name
  the Duke of Monmouth Generall to command all his fforces so long as
  his Grace shall remaine in Scotland. His Majesty by this Expedition
  will be at the charge of upwards of five hundred pounds sterline
  a day, which is more than £150,000 sterline by year if they
  continue so long. And seeing the King has so early provided for
  the preservation of his royall government and your common safety,
  he has just reason to expect that in the meantime you will bestow
  your utmost care and diligence as far as possible to suppresse that
  vile Rebellion. His Majesty presseth much that frequent flying
  packets may be sent at least every other day that he may know all
  things that pass, and that they may bear large and exact accounts.
  All which by his Majesty's command is signified to your Lordship
  by my Lord, your Lordships most humble and most faithfull servant,
  +Lauderdale+.

  "To the Right Honᵇˡᵉ· The Earl of Rothes, Lord high Chancellor of
  Scotland. To be communicated to the remnant Lords and other of his
  Majesty's most honourable Privy Councell of that Kingdome."

The next relates to the rebellion, and to the appointment of "Thomas
Dalzell to be Lieutenant General of all His Majesty's forces in that
his ancient kingdome." (Vol. v., folio 167.)

"Whitehall, 19ᵗʰ June, 1679.

  "May it please your Lordships. It was yesterday in the evening
  that your Letter of yᵉ 15ᵗʰ instant (by a flying Packett) came
  to my hand, and I did immediately waite on the King with it, who
  after his reading it was pleased to declare that he was very well
  satisfied with your recommending Generall Thomas Dalzell to be
  Lieutenant Generall of all his Majesty's Forces in that his ancient
  Kingdome, and gave me a command for Preparing his Commission for
  that purpose; wherein I would lose no time, for it was ready this
  morning for his Royall hand, and he was graciously pleased to
  signe it, as you have it now hereinclosed. His Majesty is also
  exceedingly well pleased with the march of his fforces last Munday
  against the Rebells, and with the extraordinary care and diligence
  that have appeared in all your consultations and actions since the
  first notice you had of the breaking out of this Rebellion, which
  he hopes (by the blessing of God, and the continuance of your
  faithfull endeavours) will be soone crushed. It was likewise a
  great satisfaction to his Majesty to know that you were resolved
  to send fflying Packetts frequently for he has a very earnest
  desire to be informed as often as possible, of the transactions
  there, during the continuance of this Rebellion. Your Lordships may
  be pleased to send this Letter to the Duke of Buccleugh, and this
  commission to the Lieutenant Generall with all speed.

                            "I am My Lords, ...
                                                    "+Lauderdale+.
  "To Earl Rothes...."


Folio 168 contains the Commission.

All the foregoing are from documents in the Record Office.

The next extracts are picked from the British Museum copy of a rare
autobiography, "The Memoirs of Captain John Crichton, written by
Himself." Printed in the year 1731. The peculiar interest of the words
that follow is that they were written wholly as the experiences of one
of the first officers of the Greys.

Whereupon Mr. Francis Stuart, grandson to the Earl of Bothwell, a
private gentleman in the Horse-Guards, like myself, and my intimate
acquaintance, was sent for, in haste, by the General; because the
Council of Scotland was then writing to the King that his Majesty would
be pleased to grant commissions to those persons whose names were to be
sent up to London that very night. Mr. Stuart gave me notice of this:
whereupon, although I was not sent for, I resolved to go up with him to
Edenborough, and solicit for myself.

The General: "Wha' the Deel sent for you up?" I answered that I hoped
his Excellency would now make good his promise of preferring me ... the
General stood my firm friend, and although the sons and brothers of
Lords and Baronets and other persons of quality solicited to be made
Lieutenants and Cornets, in these new raised Troops, yet the General
in regard to my services, prevailed with the Council that I might
be appointed Lieutenant to Mr. Stuart, who was then made Captain of
Dragoons.

Soon after this, the Archbishop of St. Andrews was murdered by the
Laird of Hackston and Balfour, assisted by four poor weavers.

[Illustration: +Charles the Second's Commission dated 19th June, 1679.+

Appointing "Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Lieutenant Generall' over all the
Forces within our ancient Kingdome of Scotland."]

The Council finding the Rebels daily increasing in their
numbers ... his Majesty sent down the Duke of Monmouth ... to be
Commander-in-chief.... General Dalziel refused to serve under him,
and remained at his lodgings in Edenborough, till his Grace was
superseded, which happened about a fortnight after.... The General
Officers ... desired his Grace to let them know which way he designed
to take to come at the Enemy, the Duke answered, it must be by Bothwell
Bridge. Now the bridge lay a short mile to the right of the King's
Army, was narrow, and guarded with 3,000 of the Rebels, and strongly
barricaded with great stones; but although the Officers were desirous
to have passed the river, by easy fords, directly between them and
the Rebels and to march to their main body on the moor, before those
3,000, who guarded the bridge, could come to assist them; yet the Duke
was obstinate, and would pass no other way than that of the bridge.
Pursuant to this preposterous and absurd resolution, he commanded
Captain Stuart (whose Lieutenant I was) with his troop of Dragoons,
and 80 Musqueteers, together with four small Field-pieces, under
cover of the Dragoons, to beat off the party at the bridge. The Duke
himself, with David Lesly and Melvill, accompanyed us, and ordered
the Field-pieces to be left at the Village of Bothwell, within a
musquet-shot of the bridge. When the Duke and his men came near the
bridge, the Rebels beat a parly, and sent over a Laird, accompanied
with a Kirk Preacher.... While this Parly lasted, the Field-pieces
were brought down and planted over against the bridge, without being
perceived by the Rebels. The messengers ... they would not lay down
their arms unless their conditions were granted them; whereupon the
Dragoons and Musqueteers fired all at once upon those who guarded the
bridge, and the Field-pieces played so warmly, that some hundreds of
the Rebels were slain; the rest flying to the main body on the moor.
The Duke, as soon as he had commanded to fire, retired into a hollow
from the enemies' shot; ... and continued there till the action was
over. Then Captain Stuart ordered the Musqueteers to make way for the
Horse, to pass the bridge, by casting into the river the stones which
had been placed there to obstruct the passage over it; but the army
could not pass in less than five hours; and then marched up in order of
battle towards the enemy, who waited for them on the moor, confiding in
the superiority of their numbers. Clavers commanded the Horse on the
right, and Captain Stuart the Dragoons on the left. The Field-pieces
were carried in the centre of the Footguards, while the rest of the
Officers commanded at the head of their men; and the Duke, after the
enemy was beaten from the bridge, rode at the head of the Army. Upon
the first fire, the Rebel Horse turned about.... Sir John Bell, Provost
of Glasgow as soon as he saw the Rebels fly, rode into the town; from
whence, in a few hours, he sent all the bread he could find, together
with an hogshead of drink to each troop and company in the Army, out of
the cellars of such townsmen as were found to be abettors or protectors
of the Rebels.

The Pursuers were no sooner returned, and the whole action over, than
General Dalziel arrived at the camp from Edenborough, with a commission
renewed to be Commander-in-Chief, which he received that very morning
by an Express....

[Illustration: +Charles the Second's Commission dated 11th November,
1681.+

Appointing "Lieutenant Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Colonell' of a Regiment
of Dragoones to be formed out of the three Companies of Dragoones
already standing in that our Kingdome, and three Companies more to be
added to them."]

On Saturday morning when the army was to march to Glasgow, I desired
the General's leave to go with twelve Dragoons in search of some of
the Rebels, who might probably pass the Clyde, about Dunlatton, to
shelter themselves in the Highlands. With these Dragoons, clad in grey
coats and bonnets, I made haste down the side of the river; and about
midnight, after travelling twenty-four miles, I came to a church, and
while the soldiers stayed to refresh their horses in the churchyard,
I spyed a country fellow going by, and asked him in his own dialect,
"Whither gang ye this time of night?" He answered, "Wha are ye that
speers?" I replied, "We are your ane Foke." Upon this the fellow came
up and told me; there were 18 friends with horses at an old Castle
waiting for a boat to pass over into the Isle of Arran. I mounted the
man behind one of my Dragoons, and went towards the place; but the
Rebels not finding a boat were gone off, and the guide dismissed. There
was a great dew on the grass, which directed me and my party to follow
the track of their horses for three or four miles, till the dew was
gone off; I then enquired of a cowherd on a hill whether he saw any of
our poor Foke travelling that way; he answered that they had separated
on that hill and gone three several ways, six in a party, adding, that
in one party there was a bra muckle kerl, with a white hat on him,
and a great bob of ribbons on the cock o't. Whereupon I sent 4 of my
Dragoons after one party, 4 more after another, and myself with the
remaining 4 went in pursuit of him with the white hat.... The good man
of the house returning from putting the horses to grass in the garden
was going to shut the door, whereupon myself and one of the Dragoons
commanded him, with our pistols at his breast, to lead us to the room
where the man lay who wore a white hat. We entered the room, and before
he awaked I took away his arms, and commanded him to dress immediately;
then finding his companion asleep in the barn, I forced him likewise to
arise, and mounting them both on their own horses, came at 9 o'clock in
the morning with my two prisoners to the other Dragoons at the place
where we appointed to meet. From thence we rode strait to Glasgow,
and arrived thither about 8 in the evening, after a journey of 50
miles since we left the Army at Bothwell the day before. The man with
a white hat had turned out to be Master John King.... About a month
after I happened to dream that I found one Wilson, a Captain among the
Rebels at Bothwell Bridge, in a bank of Wood upon the river Clyde. This
accident made so strong an impression upon my mind that as soon as I
awaked I took six-and-thirty Dragoons, and got to the place by break
of day. Then I caused some of them to alight and go into the wood and
set him up, as hounds do a hare, while the rest were ordered to stand
sentry to prevent his escape. It seems I dreamt fortunately, for Wilson
was actually in the wood with 5 more of his company, as we afterwards
learned, who all seeing me and my party advancing, hid themselves in a
little island on the river among the broom that grew upon it. Wilson
had not the good fortune to escape.... I seized and brought him to my
quarters, and from thence immediately conveyed him to Edenborough,
where he was hanged; but might have preserved his life if he would have
condescended only to say, God save the King. This he utterly refused
to do, and thereby lost not only his life, but likewise an estate
worth twenty-nine thousand marks Scots. For this service, the Duke of
Queensberry, then High Commissioner of Scotland, recommended me to the
King, who rewarded me with the gift of Wilson's estate; but although
the grant passed the Seals, and the Sheriff put me in possession, yet I
could neither sell it nor let it, nobody daring, for fear of the Rebels
who had escaped at Bothwell Bridge, either to purchase or farm it, by
which means I never got a penny by the grant; and at the Revolution the
land was taken from me, and restored to Wilson's heirs....

"The winter following, General Dalziel, with a battalion of the Earl of
Linlithgow's Guards, the Earl of Airly's troop of Horse, and Captain
Stuart's troop of Dragoons, quartered at Kilmarnock in the west, 50
miles from Edenborough. Here the general one day, happening to look
on while I was exercising the troop of Dragoons, asked me, when I had
done, whether I knew any of my men who was skilful in praying well in
the style and tone of the Covenanters; I immediately thought upon one
James Gibb, who had been born in Ireland, and whom I made a Dragoon.
This man I brought to the General, assuring his Excellency that if I
had raked Hell, I could not find his match for his skill in mimicking
the Covenanters. Whereupon the General gave him £5 to buy him a gray
coat and a bonnet, and commanded him to find out the Rebels, but to
be sure to take care of himself among them. The Dragoon went 8 miles
off that very night, and got admittance into the house of a notorious
Rebel, pretending he came from Ireland out of zeal for the cause,
to assist at the fight of Bothwell Bridge, and could not find an
opportunity since of returning to Ireland with safety, he said he durst
not be seen in the day-time, and therefore after bewitching the family
with his gifts of praying, he was conveyed in the dusk of the next
evening, with a guide, to the house of the next adjoining Rebel; and
thus in the same manner, from one to another, till in a month's time
he got through the principal of them in the west, telling the General
at his return, that wherever he came he made the old wives in their
devout fits tear off their biggonets and mutches; he likewise gave the
General a list of their names and places of their abodes; and into the
bargain, brought back a good purse of money in his pocket. The General
desired to know how he had prayed amongst them; he answered that it was
his custom in his prayers to send the King, the Ministers of State,
the Officers of the Army, with all their soldiers, and the Episcopall
Clergy, all broadsides to Hell, but particularly the General himself:
"What," said the General, "did you send me to Hell, Sir?" "_Yea_,"
replied the Dragoon, "you at the head of them, as their leader....

"During the winter and the following spring I secured many of those
whose names and abodes the canting Dragoon had given a list of....
In July following, the General, by order of Council, commanded me to
go with a detachment of 30 Horse and 50 Dragoons in pursuit of about
150 rebels who had escaped at Bothwell Bridge, and ever since kept
together in a body up and down in Galloway. I followed them for 5 or
6 days from one place to another; after which, on 22nd of July, they
stayed for me at Airs Moss.... The Moss is 4 miles long from east to
west and 2 broad. The Rebels drew up at the east end, and consisted
of 30 Horse and 120 Foot. I faced them upon a rising ground with my
30 Horse and 50 Dragoons. The reason why the Rebels chose this place
to fight on rather than a plain field was for fear their Horse might
desert the Foot, as they did on Hamilton Moor, near Bothwell Bridge:
and likewise, that in case they lost the day they might save themselves
by retreating into the Moss. I placed myself on the left, as judging
that the best officer the Rebels had would command on the right. The
action began about 5 in the afternoon, but lasted not long; for I
ordered my men first to receive the enemy's fire, then to ride down the
hill upon them and use their broad-swords. They did so, and before the
enemy had time to draw theirs, cut many of them down in an instant.
Whereupon they wheeled about, and Captain Fowler, who commanded the
Rebels on the right, being then in the rear, advancing up to me, I gave
him such a blow over the head with my broad-sword as would have cleaved
his scul had it not been defended by a steel cap. Fowler turning about,
aimed a blow at me, but I warded it off, and with a back stroke cut the
upper part of his head clean off from the nose upwards. By this time
the Rebells, leaving their horses, fled to the Moss; but the Royalists
pursuing them killed about 60 and took 14 prisoners. Here Cameron,
the famous Covenanter, lost his life, and Haxton was taken prisoner,
infamous for embruing his hands in the blood of the Archbishop of St.
Andrews ... for which paricide both his hands were afterwards cut off,
and he was hanged at Edenborough. But this victory cost me very dear,
for being then in the rear I rode into the Moss after the Rebels where
I overtook a dozen of them hacking and hewing one of my men whose horse
was bogged; his name was Elliot, a stout soldier and one of Claver's
troop. He had received several wounds, and was at the point of being
killed when I came to his relief. I shot one of the rogues dead with my
carbine, which obliged the rest to let the poor man and his horse creep
out of the hole, but at the same time drew all their fury upon myself;
for Elliot made a shift to crawl out of the Moss leading his horse in
his hands, but was wholly disabled from assisting his deliverer, and
was not regarded by his enemies who probably thought he was mortally
wounded, or, indeed, rather that they had no time to mind him; for I
laid about me so fast that they judged it best to keep off and not
to venture within my reach, till it unfortunately happened that my
horse slipped into the same hole out of which Elliot and his horse had
just got. When they had me at this advantage they began to show their
courage and manfully dealt their blows with their broad-swords, from
some of which the carbine that hung down my back defended me a little.
As I was paddling in the hole, the horse not able to get out, one of
the rebels ran me through the small of the back with his broad-sword,
and at the same instant two more wounded me under the ribs with their
small ones. Then I threw myself over the head of my horse, taking
the far pistol out of the holster in my left hand, and holding my
broad-sword in my right; and as one of the villains was coming hastily
up to me his foot slipped, and before he could recover himself I struck
my sword into his skull; but the fellow, being big and heavy, snapped
it asunder as he fell within a span of the hilt. The Rebels had me now
at a great advantage. One of them made a stroak at me which I guarded
off with the hilt of the sword that was left in my hand, but the force
with which he struck the blow--and I kept it off--brought us both to
the ground. However I got up before him, clapped my pistol to his side
and shot him dead. As soon as this was done another came behind me, and
with some weapon or other struck me such a blow on the head as laid me
flat on my back, in which posture I remained a good while insensible,
the rogues taking it for granted that I was dead, scoured off.

"A little recovering my senses, I strove to lift up my head, which one
of the rogues happening to see at some distance, immediately returned,
and said in my hearing: 'God, the dog is no deed yet.' Then coming up
to me, took his sword, and putting its hilt to his breast and guiding
it with both his hands, made a thrust at my belly; but my senses were
now so far recovered that I parried the thrust with the piece of the
sword which remained still in my hand. The fellow, when he missed his
aim, almost fell on his face, for the sword ran up to the hilt in the
moss; and as he was recovering himself I gave him a dab in the mouth
with my broken sword which very much hurt him, but he aiming a second
thrust, which I had likewise the good fortune to put by, and having
as before given him another dab in the mouth, he immediately went off
for fear of the pursuers, whereof many were now returning. In this
distress I made a shift, with much difficulty and pain, to get upon my
feet, but my right leg being disabled by the wound I received from the
broad-sword, I was forced to limp by the help of the carbine, which I
made use of as a staff. I had lost my horse, for one of the rogues,
when I had quitted him in the hole, led him away through the Moss. I
recovered him about a year after from the man to whom the rebel had
sold him."

       *       *       *       *       *

This next letter, from the King, taken from the Record Office, refers
to the three Independent Troops of Dragoons, and orders three more
Troops to be levied, and the whole six to be then _regimented_, thus
establishing the Royal Scots Greys:--

"CHARLES R.

  "My dear and most entirely beloved Brother. Wee greet you well.
  Wee have thought fit for the good of our Service to retrench all
  the Companyes of ffoote of our Regiment of Guard commanded by the
  Earle of Linlithgow, and likewise all the companies of the Regiment
  of ffoote commanded by the Earle of Mar, as also to retrench every
  one of the three Companies of Dragoons now standing. Therefore
  you are to give order to Generall Thomas Dalyell, our Lieutenant
  Generall, to reduce and disband six men out of every Company of the
  above mentioned two Regiments of ffoote (and this ouer and aboue
  any former Retrenchment made by us as to the ffoote) and forty-five
  Dragoones of every one of the three Companies of Dragoones aboue
  mentioned, together with one Corporall of Dragoones out of every
  one of the said three Companies, and that this Retrenchment
  be made upon the last day of November instant, and that these
  Souldiers ffoote and Dragoones so disbanded receive pay till that
  day inclusive. Wee have likewise thought it necessary for our
  Service that three Companies of Dragoones be presently leavied,
  each Company consisting of fifty souldiers, centinell Standers
  (besides the officers' servants allowed by our Establishment), and
  wee appoint each Company to haue two Sergeants, two Corporalls
  and two Drummers, besides the officers commissioned by us. _Wee
  haue likewise resolved that the three Companies of Dragoones
  already standing so reduced with those three to be Leavied shalbe
  Regimented_; and to that affect wee have commissioned our said
  _Lieutenant Generall to be Colonel thereof, Lord Charles Murray to
  be Lieutenant Colonell and Sir James Turner to be Major;_ and that
  each of them have one Company in that Regiment. You are therefore
  to give order to our Lieutenant Generall to cause these Companies
  to be leauied accordingly, and to bring them as soon as can be to
  a Muster; at and after which Muster they are to enter into Pay
  conforme to our establishment. For doing of all which this shalbe
  your Warrant, and so Wee bid you heartily farewell. Given at our
  Court at Whitehall the 25 day of November 1681, and of our Reigne
  yᵉ 33ᵈ year.

  "By his Majesty's command,
                                  "+Murray+.

  "To our most dear and most entirely beloved Brother James Duke of
  Albany and York, our high Commissioner in our ancient kingdome of
  Scotland."

[Folio 515.]

"CHARLES R.

  "Establishment for the Pay of his Majesty's present standing Forces
  in his ancient kingdome of Scotland, according to twenty eight
  dayes in each month, and for twelve months in the year."

  Then are described the following; but I only give in full the
  Regiment with whose history we are dealing:--

  "His Majesty Troope of Guard.

  "His Majesty's Regiment of ffoote Guard commanded by the Earle of
  Linlithgow.

  "The Regiment of ffoote commanded by the Earle of Marr.

  "The Troope of Horse commanded by the Earle of Airlie, and 2 more
  troopes, one commanded by the Master of Rosse, and the other by
  John Graham of Claverhouse."

  "The Pay of one Regiment of Dragoones consisting of Colonell,
  Lieutenant Colonell, and Major, and six Companies, and for each
  Company consisting of 50 souldiers, is as followeth, vizt.:

                                                PER DIEM.

  Colonell as Colonell                         00  13   8
  Lieutenant Colonell as such                       7
  Major as Major                                    5
  Quartermaster                                     5
  Marishall                                         2
  Chyrurgeon and Mate                               5
  Aid Major                                         7   4
                                              -----------
                                               £2   5

  Captaine 8s. and 2 Dragoones each 1s. 2_d._      10   4

  Lieutenant 5s., and 2 Dragoones each 1s. 2_d._    7   4

  Ensigne 4_s._, and 2 Dragoones at 1_s._ 2_d._     5   2

  Two Sergeants each 2_s._ 6_d._                    5

  Two Corporalls each 1_s._ 8_d._                   3   4

  Two Drummers each 1_s._ 8_d._                     3   4

  Fifty Souldiers each 1_s._ 2_d._              2  18   4
                                                ----------
                                               £4  12  10"

After this come particulars of the gunners garrisoning Edinburgh
Castle, Stirling Castle, etc!

And lastly, the Militia, at an annual cost of £400 and occupying only
half a page in the book!

The foregoing establishment is dated 25 November, 1681, and the
following memorandum appears in the margin:--

  "_Nota._--That the Originall of this establishment was written upon
  a large sheet of velum in three columns; His Majesty having signed
  on the middle of yᵉ top thereof, and added C:R: at the bottome of
  each of the columns."

This next extract is Charles the Second's commission to Lord Charles
Murray as first Lieutenant-Colonel:--

"CHARLES R.

  "Charles the Second by the grace of God, King of Scotland, England,
  France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, &c., To our right trusty
  and welbeloved _Lord Charles Murray_, greeting.

  "We reposing speciall trust and confidence in your loyalty, courage
  and good conduct. Have nominated, constituted and appointed, and
  by these presents doe nominate, constitute and appoint you to
  be Lieutenant Colonell of that our Regiment of Dragoones in our
  Ancient Kingdome of Scotland, Whereof Wee have appointed our right
  trusty and welbeloved Councellor Thomas Dalyell Lieutenant Generall
  of all our Forces there to be Colonell: As alsoe Wee doe nominate,
  constitute and appoint you to be Captain of a Company thereof.

  "You are therefore carefully and diligently to discharge the Duty
  of a Lieutenant Colonel and Captain of the said Regiment and
  Company respectively by exercising the saem in armes both Officers
  and Souldiers, and keeping them in good order and discipline.
  And Wee doe hereby command them to obey you as their Lieutenant
  Colonell and Captain, and your selfe likewise exactly to obserue
  and follow all such Orders and Directions as you shall from time
  to time receive from Us, our most Dear and most entirely beloved
  Brother James Duke of Albany and York, our high Commissioner or our
  Privy Councell of that our kingdome, our Lieutenant Generall and
  Commander in Cheife of our Forces there, now or for the time being,
  your Colonell or any other your superiour Officer, according to the
  Rules and Dispositions of Warre, in pursuance of the trust hereby
  reposed in you. Given at our Court at Whitehall the 25ᵗʰ day of
  November 1681, and of our Reigne the 33ᵈ year.

  "By his Maᵗⁱᵉˢ command
                                                       "+Murray+."


       *       *       *       *       *

This next is the King's commission to Thomas Dalyell as Colonel of the
Regiment; it recites particulars of the founding of the Regiment:--

"CHARLES R.

  "Charles the Second by yᵉ grace of God king of Scotland, England,
  France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, &c.: To our right
  trusty and welbeloved Councellor, _Thomas Dalyell_ our Lieutenant
  Generall of all our fforces in our ancient kingdome of Scotland,
  greeting: Whereas Wee have thought fit for the good of our Service
  to order a Regiment of Dragoones to be formed out of the three
  Companies of Dragoones already standing in that our kingdome,
  and three Companies more to be added unto them; Wee doe now (out
  of the great experience wee haue of your Loyalty, Courage, and
  good conduct) Nominate, Constitute and appoint you to be Colonell
  of our said Regiment of Dragoones, as also Captain of a Company
  thereof. You are therefore carefully and diligently to discharge
  the Duty of a Colonel and Captain of the said Regiment and Company
  respectively, by exercising the same in Armes both Officers and
  Souldiers, and keeping them in good Order and Discipline. And wee
  doe hereby command them to obey you as their Colonell and Captain,
  and yourself likewise exactly to observe and follow all such Orders
  and Directions as you shall from time to time receive from Us, our
  most Dear and most entirely beloved Brother James Duke of Albany
  and York, our high Commissioner, or our Privy Councell of that our
  kingdome, in pursuance of the Trust hereby reposed in you. Given at
  our Court at Whitehall the 26ᵗʰ day of November 1681, and of our
  Reigne yᵉ 33ᵈ year.

  "By his Majesty's command
                                                       "+Murray+."


[Illustration: +Warrant of Charles II.+,

Granting "certain revenues to Thomas Dalzell as Lieutenant Generall in
command of the Forces in Scotland."]

John Creichton, of the Massacre of Glencoe, writes:--

  "McDonnal, Laird of Cappagh, in the Highlands, ... was unjustly
  possessed, as most men believed, for many years, of an estate,
  which in right belonged to the Laird of Mackintosh.... Soon after,
  the Government ordered me to detach 60 Dragoons, with a Lieutenant,
  Cornet, and Standard, and to march with Captain Streighton, and
  200 of the Foot Guards against the McDonnels.... Whereupon we, who
  were sent against him, continued to destroy all the houses and
  corn, from the time of Lammas to the 10th of September; and then
  we advanced towards the Borders, to join the Scotch army, at that
  time marching towards England, against the Prince of Orange, then
  intending an invasion."

[Creichton now goes on with his account of the coming of William the
Third, which is, of course, a mistake in order.]

  "We arrived thither October 1st, after a march of 200 miles.... The
  army did not reach London till about 25th October.... The Earl of
  Airly, when he was Lord Ogleby, had attended the great Marquess of
  Montrose in all his Actions, for King Charles the First and Second.
  But at this time being old, it was reported that he was dead,
  before the Scotch Forces went into England, to oppose the Prince of
  Orange; whereupon the King had given his troop in Dundee's Regiment
  to the Earl of Anandale: but the Earl having overtook the Army at
  Cambridge, in their march, went on to London, and there presenting
  himself before the King; his Majesty ... immediately restored his
  Lordship to his Troop, ordering him at the same time to command
  those 200 men who attended him down to Salisbury. When all the
  Forces were arrived at Salisbury, the Earl of Dunmore, with his
  Regiment of Dragoons, wherein I served, was ordered to a Pass 3
  miles below the City, where I commanded the Guard that night.

  "I now return to my Lord Dundee, and my Lord Dunmore. Their
  Lordships acted no longer as Colonels, when they understood that
  the Prince intended to place himself on the throne during his
  Majesty's life.... After their Lordships were gone to Scotland, I
  went to Watford, where my Lord Kilsythe, as Lieutenant Colonel,
  commanded the Lord Dunmore's Regiment of Dragoons.... Major General
  McCoy ordered the Lord Kilsythe to march the Regiment from place
  to place till they should come to Congerton, a town in Cheshire.
  Here they quartered, when the Prince and Princess of Orange were
  proclaimed King and Queen of England, &c., by the Sheriff and
  3 or 4 Bailiffs. It happened to be a very stormy day; and when
  the Sheriff had done his Office, a crack-brained fellow, at the
  head of a great rabble, proclaimed the Duke of Monmouth king, to
  the great diversion of the Regiment; not believing he had been
  beheaded. When my Lord Dunmore refused to serve the Prince of
  Orange, Sir Thomas Levingston, of my Lord Kilsythe's family, got
  the Regiment. This gentleman was born in Holland, and often used to
  raise recruits in Scotland; upon which account he was well known
  to the Regiment. He came down, Post, to Congerton, and at Supper,
  told the officers that he was sent to know, which of them would
  serve King William and which would not? Now the oath of allegiance
  to that Prince, having not been offered to that Regiment, one of
  the Company answered that we having sworn Allegiance to King James,
  could not, in conscience and honour, draw our swords against him:
  Whereupon Sir Thomas, drinking an health to King James, upon his
  knees, answered that he wished he might be damned, whenever he
  should command them to break that oath: and in order to ingratiate
  himself further with the Regiment, added: that he would return to
  London next day, for a command to march them strait to Scotland,
  where their wives and friends were; and likewise to procure a
  Captain's commission for me, since Sir Adam Blair, who commanded
  the troop, in which I was Lieutenant, had refused to serve King
  William, both which he accordingly obtained. When he returned from
  London, he marched with the Regiment, directly through Berwick,
  into Scotland.

  "From this period, my troubles began; for I was then sent up to
  Edenborough, and there imprisoned in the Tolbooth, together with my
  Lord Kilsythe, Captain Levingston, Captain Murray, and Lieutenant
  Murray, each of us in a separate dungeon; with orders that none
  should be permitted to speak with us, except through the keyhole;
  and in this miserable condition we lay for two months.... The
  Council, although they could force no confession from me, or my
  companions, that might affect my Lord Kilsythe, on whose estate
  their hearts were much set, yet resolved to make a sacrifice of
  someone among us ... the lot fell on me.... Lord Dundee, then at
  Blair Castle in Athole, hearing this, wrote to the Council--that if
  they hanged Captain Creichton, he would cut the Laird of Blair, and
  the Laird of Pollock, joint by joint, and would send their limbs in
  hampers to the Council."

The following entries are from two large folio manuscript Establishment
Books in my possession. Each volume is bound in boards covered with
fine white vellum, with gold tooling in Mearne's style.

The first opens with the Accession of James the Second; but the first
entry that concerns us is on page 63:--

  "Our Will and Pleasure is that this Establishment for our Scots
  Forces hereafter mentioned, do commence from the First day of
  November, in the 4th year of our Reigne, and continue during their
  stay in England."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: +James the Second's Commission dated 30th March, 1685.+

Appointing "Generall Thomas Dalzell 'Lieutenant Generall' over all our
Forces within our ancient Kingdome of Scotland."]

                           REGIMENT OF DRAGOONS.

  +Field and Staff Officers.+
                                                    PER DIEM.   PER ANNUM
  Colonel as Colonel                                            273 15
  Lieut. Col. as Lᵗ. Col.                                       164  5
  Major who has no troop, for himself and
    servants                                                    365
  Adjutant                                                       91  5
  Chirurgeon 4_s._, and a horse to carry his
    chest, 2_s._                                                109 10

  +One Troop.+

  Capt. 8_s._, and 3 Horses 3_s._                               200 15
  Lieut. 4_s._, and 2 Horses 2_s._                              109 10
  Cornet 3_s._, and 2 Horses 2_s._                               91  5
  Quarter Master for himself and Horse 4                         73
  2 Serjeants each 18_d._, and 2 for Horses                      91  5
  2 Drummers each 12_d._, and 2 for Horses                       73
  49 private soldiers at 18_d._ each per diem                  1471  7  6
  Two Corporals each at 12_d._, and 2_s._ for Horses             73
  Five Troopes more at the same rates and
    numbers                                                  £10265 12  6
                                                             ------------
                               Total                          18499  6  8

The next entry is under the 1st of May, 1689, in William the Third's
Establishment for England. On page 78 is recorded Sir Thomas
Levingston's Regiment of Dragoons.

The numbers and pay appear as before, except for these additions:--

  Chaplain                                                     £134
  Gunsmith 4_s._, and his servant 1_s._                          91  5

Also for each Troop are added:--

  Two Hoboys each 12_d._, and 2_s._ for horses, £73; and 60 privates
  in each troop. $/

  The second volume begins with April, 1692, and on page 11 the
  Dragoons are recorded with the same numbers and pay, as before.

  The Establishment for Land Forces and Garrisons, 1694, opens on
  page 75 with an interesting list of Regiments and their commanding
  Officers:--Under Dragoons one entry is "Lord Tiviot's."

  After the 1694 Establishment comes that for the 26th March, 1699.
  On page 133, Dragoons are recorded. There is no mention of a
  gunsmith. There is one "Hoboy" 2_s._ per diem.

  Then on page 161 we reach the Establishment of Guards and
  Garrisons, 25th April, 1700.

  The Dragoon Regiments, as detailed on page 168, had only 40 private
  soldiers to each troop.

  The 1st of June (1702) Establishment gives the Dragoons 54 private
  soldiers to a company.

  The following relates to the title of the Regiment:--

  William and Mary, by the Grace of God, King and Queen of Scotland,
  England, France, and Ireland, Defenders of the Faith, &c., &c.
  Whereas that Regiment of Dragoons to which our trusty and most
  beloved Councillor, Sir Thomas Livingstone, Brigadier-General
  of our Army, is Colonel, hath been formerly designed the Royal
  Regiment of Scots Dragoons, and so, reposing special confidence in
  the said regiment, we do, hereby, appoint and ordain the same to be
  designed our 'Royal Regiment of Scots Dragoons,' and we require all
  general officers and others in our army so to design that regiment;
  and to give the full title and honour that is due to our 'Royal
  Regiment of Scots Dragoons.' Given under our royal hand and signet,
  at our Court at Breda the seventh day of May, 1692, and of our
  reign the fourth year.

  "By His Majesty's command,
                        "+J. O. Dalrymple+."


On 31st May, 1694, the Regiment landed at Williamstadt, in North
Brabant, and on June 16th was reviewed by King William before occupying
cantonments near Arschot. No general engagement took place this year:
but the Regiment was twice engaged in skirmishes with the French
cavalry, and in October marched into cantonments in the villages near
Ghent. Coming out of winter quarters in April, 1695, the Regiment
proceeded to Dixmude, in West Flanders, and thence to join the Army
encamped at Arseele, and on 31st May were reviewed by King William
with the rest of the Army. During the progress of the siege of Namur
the Regiment formed part of the Army under the Prince of Vaudemont
which manœuvred so as to protect the troops employed before the town.
The Regiment was encamped a short time between Genappe and Waterloo;
it afterwards occupied, together with the Regiment of Foot of
Holstein-Ploen, an important post at Masy, and after the surrender of
the citadel of Namur marched into winter quarters in West Flanders.

[Illustration: +Warrant of William and Mary+, 1692,

Confirming the Title "Our Royal Regiment of Scots Dragoons."]

[Illustration: His Excellency John Earl of Stair, Field Marshal,
General and Commander in Chief of his Majesties Forces & General of
the Hanoverian and Hessian Armies in the Service of Great Britain, His
Majesties Ambafsador Extraordinary & Plenipotentiary to the States
General of the United Provinces.]

In May, 1696, they encamped near Bruges and for some months were
stationed behind the canal between Ghent and Bruges, their duty
being to observe the motions of the French Army commanded by Marshal
Villeroy, which was encamped on the opposite side of the canal. In
October they marched into winter quarters in the villages behind
Bruges. In the spring of 1697 negotiations were opened for a general
peace. They were encamped for a short time between Brussels and Aeth,
afterwards between Vilvorde and Burntbridge, on the Brussels canal; and
when the peace of Ryswick was concluded they marched to Bruges. Before
the end of December the Regiment embarked for England and landing
at Harwich early in January, 1698, marched at once to Scotland. The
establishment which, during the war, had been 8 troops and 590 officers
and men was ordered to be reduced to 6 troops and 294 officers and men.

In 1701 the accession of the Duke of Anjou to the throne of Spain
caused war to be declared again on May 15th. The two troops were again
added, and early in 1702 the Regiment embarked for Holland.

The Regiment formed part of the guard for the English artillery train
at Breda, with which it joined the allied army under John Churchill,
Earl of Marlborough.

In the autumn of 1702 the Greys were engaged in covering the sieges
of Venloo, Ruremonde and Stevenswaert. The following is taken from
those most interesting records, Marlborough's own correspondence and
despatches:--

  Sutendal, 21st September, 1702. The castle of Venloo was carried by
  storm last Monday, so that they hope to be masters of the town by
  Sunday or Monday. My Lord Cutts commanded at one of the breaches,
  and the English grenadiers had the honour of being the first that
  entered the fort. We are making all preparations we can for the
  attack of Ruremond and Stevenswaert, and I think no other enemy but
  ill weather can hinder us from taking them.

  2 October. Our batteries began to play upon Stevenswaert on
  Saturday last, and continued firing without intermission till
  about 10 last night, when, the besieged having abandoned the
  counterscarp, and our men being ready to mount the breach, they
  beat the chamade, and desired to capitulate.

  9 October. On Saturday at 3 in the morning, his Excellency the
  Earl of Marlborough received an express from Ruremond, that our
  batteries having begun to play upon the town on Friday morning,
  about 6 the same evening the besieged had desired to capitulate.
  The garrison, consisting of near 2000 men, are to march out this
  day, and to be conducted, with two pieces of cannon, to Antwerp. We
  found in the place 30 pieces of cannon....

The Regiment was also present at the taking of Liege, on October 23rd.
Before going into winter quarters one squadron acted as a body-guard
to Marlborough in visiting Venloo and Ruremonde. The Regiment wintered
in Dutch Brabant. Before the end of April, 1703, the Regiment took the
field again and encamped near Hamont, in the province of Limburg, from
whence they marched to Lardner Heath, afterwards to Château D'Horn,
near Ruremonde, and on May 7th they reached near to Tongres. In the
meanwhile a party of English cavalry, escorting a quantity of specie
for the Army, was attacked and defeated by a detachment of French
troops, who captured the treasure. The Greys were instantly ordered
out, and dashing across the country intercepted and defeated the French
troops and returned with the specie in triumph back to camp.

Next the Regiment was sent towards Bonn, then being besieged. After the
taking of Bonn it joined the main army near Maestricht on May 21st.

The Regiment was engaged in the siege of Limburg, which fell on
September 28th.

When the famous campaign of 1704 opened Lord John Hay, son of the
Marquis of Tweeddale, became, by purchase, Colonel in succession to
Viscount Teviot.

During the operations under Marlborough on the Dutch frontiers a body
of French troops passed the Black Forest and, joining the Bavarians,
gained several advantages over the Austrians, endangering the Imperial
throne.

In April, 1704, the Greys, joined by a remount from Scotland,
marched to Bedburgh on the Lower Rhine, where they were reviewed
by Marlborough, and on May 19th began its march on that important
expedition. To keep the enemy in suspense, the troops proceeded towards
the Moselle, but on the 25th May changed their route, and marched
to Coblentz. Having crossed the Rhine and the Moselle, Marlborough
pushed forward in advance with the cavalry for the Danube, ordering
the infantry to follow. Continuing their march through the States of
Germany, the regiments crossed the Necker in the early part of June,
while the rapidity of their movements and the secrecy of their design
filled all Europe with wonder and anxiety, and the enemy appeared
confused and lost in doubt and conjecture.

The British Regiments joined the forces of the Emperor, commanded by
the Margrave of Baden, when the new line of battle was formed and the
brigade, consisting of the Royal Scots and Royal Irish Dragoons, was
posted on the left of the first line. Marlborough wishing to possess
Donawerth as a place of arms, decided to attack a division commanded by
the Count D'Arco, posted on the lofty heights of Schellenberg, on the
north of the Danube commanding the passage of that river at Donawerth,
and the Greys formed part of the force chosen for this service. After
marching, on July 2nd, through a country intersected with rivulets
and other obstacles the troops came near to Schellenberg. At 6 in the
evening the attack was ordered, and the British infantry going forward
with firm and resolute step assaulted the entrenchments, while the
Greys and other cavalry moved forward in support. In a few moments a
storm of bullets assailed the ranks of the Bavarians, and the thunder
of the British fire echoed in the valley below. The post was valiantly
defended, and a fierce fight had gone on for some time when the Greys
were ordered to dismount, form as infantry, and assault the trenches.
The regiment instantly obeyed, and led by its gallant Colonel, Lord
John Hay, advanced boldly to the attack and mixed fiercely in the
conflict. At this instant the enemy gave way on all sides, and the
cavalry rushing forward sabred many as they fled towards the Danube;
whilst the Count D'Arco, and other officers escaped by crossing the
river.

The post won and the enemy's baggage, artillery, and many standards
captured, the Royal Scots Dragoons remounted. The Regiment lost in
the action Captain Douglas and 7 men killed, two officers, and 17 men
wounded. Donawerth was occupied on the following day.

The next great event to refer to is the Battle of Blenheim, in the
valley of the Danube, fought on August 13th. The following words are
Sir Edward Creasy's:--"Like Hannibal, Marlborough relied principally
on his cavalry for achieving his decisive successes, and it was by his
cavalry that Blenheim, the greatest of his victories, was won. The
battle had lasted till five in the afternoon. Marlborough had now 8,000
horsemen drawn up in two lines, and in the most perfect order for a
general attack on the enemy's line along the space between Blenheim and
Oberglau. The infantry was drawn up in battalions in their rear, so as
to support them if repulsed and to keep in check the large masses of
the French that still occupied the village of Blenheim.

"Tallard now interlaced his squadrons of cavalry with battalions of
infantry, and Marlborough, by a corresponding movement, brought several
regiments of infantry and some pieces of artillery to his front line
at intervals between the bodies of horse. A little after 5 Marlborough
commenced the decisive movement, and the allied cavalry, strengthened
and supported by foot and guns, advanced slowly from the lower ground
near the Nebel up the slope to where the French cavalry, 10,000 strong,
awaited them. On riding over the summit of the acclivity the allies
were received with so hot a fire from the French artillery and small
arms that at first the cavalry recoiled, but without abandoning the
high ground. The guns and the infantry, which they had brought with
them, maintained the contest with spirit and effect. The French fire
seemed to slacken; Marlborough instantly ordered a charge along the
line. The allied cavalry galloped forward at the enemy's squadrons,
and the hearts of the French horsemen failed them. Discharging their
carbines at an idle distance they wheeled round and spurred from the
field, leaving the nine infantry battalions of their comrades to be
ridden down by the torrent of the allied cavalry."

The Greys lost several men and horses wounded but none killed.

Extracts from a journal of the 1704 campaign kept by Mr. Hare, chaplain
to the Duke, and afterwards Bishop of Chichester:--

  "Being thus resolved to attack the enemy, they gave orders that
  the Army should march before break of day, and range itself in
  order of battle upon the plain, between Grenhiern and Orklau. The
  whole army as it was now (Brigadier Baldwyn and several other
  parties not being yet come in) consisted of 66 Battalions and 160
  Squadrons on the right wing, under Prince Eugene, there were the
  seven Danish and eleven Prussian Battalions, which were all the
  Foot his Highness had under his command; he had also 74 Squadrons
  composed of the Imperial and Prussian Troops, with those of Swabia,
  Franconia, Wurtemberg, and other Troops of the Empire.

  "On the left wing against Marshal Tallard were 48 Battalions (viz.)
  14 English, 14 Dutch, 7 Hessian, and 13 of Hanover, Luxembourg,
  Zell, and Swiss; also 86 Squadrons (viz.) 14 English, 22 Danes, and
  18 Dutch, 7 Hessian, and 25 of Lunenbourg, Hanover, and Zell. This
  Army marched directly towards the enemies (which were then about 4
  miles distant) before break of day in the following order.

  "The Imperial Army filed off to the right in 4 columns (viz.) two
  of Infantry and two of Cavalry. The Infantry marched to the right
  of the Cavalry upon a rising ground, close by a wood which came
  down to the River Kessel before mentioned. The two lines of Cavalry
  marched to the left of them; the English and Dutch army filed off
  also in 4 such Columns, having on their right the 2 Columns of
  the Imperial Cavalry, and on their left the villages of Dapsheim,
  Schwening and the Danube. Major General Wilkies and Brigadier Rowe,
  with 9 Battalions that were left in Dapsheim, to maintain that post
  all the last night, now marched to the left of all by themselves,
  next the Danube. The Imperial Artillery followed the Infantry of
  that wing, and the English and Dutch artillery and Pontoons marched
  through the villages of Erlinghoffen, Dapsheim and Schweingen; and
  all the baggage was sent back to Rittingen near Donawert, where it
  was to be drawn up till further orders.

  "His Grace caused the whole Army to halt, and then detached 11
  Battalions out of both lines of the left wing to be joined to the
  9 already detached under Major General Wilkie near the Danube. The
  whole twenty were to be commanded by the Lord Cutts, and under him
  Major General Wilkies and St. Paul, and Brigadier Ferguson, Rowe
  and Hulson. Major General Wood and Brigadier General Ross were
  ordered with 15 squadrons of Dragoons to sustain the Lord Cutts.
  These Battalions and squadrons being joined with the other nine,
  made a ninth column which marched upon the left of all, by itself,
  next the Danube, the Lord Cutts being ordered with this detachment
  to attack the village of Blenheim, which joined to that River.

  "This being done the Army moved forwards, His Grace and Prince
  Eugene advancing before all, with some squadrons of the Grand
  Guard to take a view of the enemy; they discovered their advanced
  parties before 6 in the morning, which parties as our squadrons
  came up retired by degrees into their camp. About 7 our Generals
  stood and took a full view of the enemies' camp upon a rising ground
  over against Overklau, on our side the Rivulet; it continues to run
  in two Branches till within a few paces before it falls into the
  Danube, the meadows between them being soft and marshy. One of the
  Branches had two mills upon it, at both which there was an easy
  passage over the Rivulet.

  "His Grace saw all this very plainly at half-a-mile distance, but
  he was more particularly informed of the nature of this ground by
  Major General Nazemere, of the King of Prussia's troops, who had
  been wounded the year before in the defeat of Count Styrum by the
  Elector of Bavaria and Monsieur Dupon upon the very place. All this
  while, the morning being a little hazy, the enemy might think we
  had only little parties abroad and not know that our whole Army was
  in motion. However it was they lay quiet in their camp, and two
  deserters from them gave his Grace a particular account how their
  troops were encampt.

  "Our Columns began to appear a little after 7 in the morning, both
  officers and soldiers advancing very cheerfully and shewing a firm
  and glad countenance and persuading themselves of a victorious day.

  "All this while the village of Blenheim had been incessantly
  attacked by the Lord Cutts, who having found it impracticable to
  enter that place sword in hand, as the enemy were posted, had
  altered his method and attacked with his fire only. The first
  of his lines (which was posted near the enemy's entrenchments)
  continually discharged in Platoons, and the other lines relieved
  this and each other successively.

  "Notwithstanding all which it held out still, and now gave work
  to all our Infantry. For the moment that our Cavalry had beaten
  that of the enemy and cleared the field of them, General Churchill
  marched both the lines of Foot and laid them upon this village
  in two different places, so that it was now quite surrounded and
  there was no getting out of it but through the Danube, and to
  prevent their escaping that way the Queen's Regiment (commanded
  by Brigadier Webb) took possession of a little Barrier the enemy
  had made to cover their retreat and was posted to the right of
  all fronting to the street which led down to the Danube. By this
  means several hundreds of the enemy endeavouring to get of that way
  were made Prisoners by that Regiment which besides this service,
  has the consideration due to it, that the Horses belonging to the
  dismounted Regiments of French Dragoons were at their Piquets close
  by this Regiment, yet there was not a man stirred out of his rank
  to take one of them but they all fell a booty to other soldiers.
  Prince George's Regiment (commanded by Colonel Byton) was posted
  next the Danube to the left, on the other side of the Town; so
  that all those of the enemy which came out that way were either
  taken prisoners, killed, or forced into the Danube; some of them
  endeavoured to break out in two other places of the village, _but
  Major-General Wood (who was left with only the Lord John Hayes's
  Regiment of Grey Dragoons)_ perceiving it immediately advanced
  towards them, and taking the advantage of a rising ground, amused
  them, and made them believe he had more squadrons behind him and so
  drew up and stopped them there.

  "Brigadier Ross (who was ordered to sustain Lieutenant-General
  Ingoldsby) did the like on the other side of the Town with
  5 squadrons of Dragoons and 3 squadrons of Horse which
  Lieutenant-General Lumley had sent from the pursuit for this
  purpose; two of which he soon after sent back again, upon order
  he had received from the Duke of Marlborough to bring all the
  squadrons he could to the right, where the Elector was marching off.

  "It was now betwixt 3 and 4 o'clock when General Churchill sent
  word to the Lord Cutts that the Duke of Marlborough had beaten
  the enemies Horse out of the field. He also let him know that he
  himself was going to attack the same village in Flank and Rear, and
  therefore desired his Lordship to make another attack at the same
  time in the front, if his troops were not too much spent, or at
  least to make a feint of doing it. This was effectually executed
  at once on all sides. The Earl of Orkney and Lieutenant-General
  Ingoldsby entered the village at two different places at the Head
  of their respective Lines, but not being able to make a front equal
  to what the enemy had in the village, especially in the Churchyard
  which had high walls round about it, they were forced to retire.
  However this, and the frequent attacks the enemy had sustained in
  their front for several hours together; the damage they suffered
  by our Cannon which played all the afternoon furiously upon them
  within musket shot, the great disorder they were put into by a
  Battery of Howitzers, whose shells set all the Barns and Houses
  on fire, and especially Monsieur Clerambaut their commander
  being fled and as they were told, drowned in the Danube, and
  being quite surrounded, and obliged to stand another attack at
  a time when they had no hopes of relief, the Cavalry which was
  to sustain them, being drove quite out of the Field: all these
  together put them into so great consternation, that they demanded
  a cessation, which being allowed, General Churchill sent orders
  to the Lord Cutts to cease attacking in the Front, and the Lord
  Orkney immediately sent in Captain Abercromby his Aid du Camp on
  one side as Lieutenant-General Ingoldsby did Lieutenant-Colonel
  Belville of the Tell regiment of de Beial on the other side. After
  a very little time their Lieutenant-Colonel returned with Monsieur
  Hautefeuille and Monsieur Blansac, and the Lieutenant-Colonel's
  own Brother, who was Captain in Nasseys Regiment of Dragoons, then
  dismounted in the Town. The Lord Orkney had also met with the
  Marquis Desnouville, who commanded the French regiment Royal and
  was already made prisoner, but was suffered to go into the Town
  again, upon his parole to return immediately. This he did bringing
  with him to the Lord Orkney several French generals. And as they
  were all capitulating, General Churchill came up and told the
  French Generals that he had no time to lose, (it being now past
  7 in the evening), and that if they did not lay down their arms
  immediately he would renew the attack, upon this they thought fit
  to submit, and they, with all their regiments, were made Prisoners
  at discretion."




CHAPTER II.


The campaign of 1704 closed with the Siege of Landau, the Greys forming
part of the army covering the siege. In September, when the King of the
Romans visited the British camp, the Duke of Marlborough placed himself
at the head of the "Royal Scots Dragoons" to receive his Majesty.

The interesting incident is thus entered by Hare in his Journal:

  "On 2nd of October the King of the Romans came from before Landau,
  to take a view of the Army commanded by his Grace at Weissembourg.
  His Grace sent Colonel Cadogan to conduct His Majesty to the left
  of the Army which was drawn out in two lines for this purpose. His
  Grace there received and saluted His Majesty at the head of Lord
  John Hayes' regiment of Dragoons, and afterwards accompanied His
  Majesty along the lines, which appeared extremely fine and gave
  great satisfaction to his Majesty."

In November they marched back to Holland for the winter, and in
Guelderland were joined by another remount from Scotland.

They were withdrawn from their cantonments early in May of 1705, and
after traversing Limburg, encamped near the banks of the river Maese,
where the Duke of Marlborough assembled the army for the purpose of
proceeding up the Moselle. After a halt of two days, the cavalry
crossed the Maese, and marched to Coblenz, and thence to Juliers. After
leaving this, they crossed a barren country to Triersweiler, where
the troops encamped on May 26th. Thence the Moselle and the Saar were
crossed, and plans made for offensive warfare. This was all frustrated
by Austrian delays and German commanders' jealousies. The Duke of
Marlborough resolved therefore to return.

At midnight on June 17th the troops decamped in the midst of a heavy
rain, and the Royal Scots Dragoons, with several other regiments,
formed up to cover the retreat through a long and narrow defile. No
enemy, however, appeared to interrupt the army, and retracing their
former steps by forced marches, the Greys reached the vicinity of
Maestricht on June 30th; when the French forces in the Netherlands
instantly ceased acting on the offensive, and took refuge behind their
lines.

[Illustration: "+Signatures of Colonel Agnew's Troop, for receipt of
Bountie monie, for Campaigne of 1704.+"]

After several changes of position, the Greys and other corps were
ordered to be ready to march immediately after dark on the evening
of July 17th; and the regiment was formed on this occasion as usual
in brigade with the Royal Irish Dragoons under the command of
Brigadier-General Lord John Hay. The French lines to be taken were very
formidable, for besides the height of the rampart, and the largeness of
the ditch, they were further defended by the difficulties of the ground
over which they were to be approached; and by the river Geet, which
could not be crossed without laying bridges over it, and which was near
enough to the lines to be defended by the fire from the parapet. Our
troops continued their march throughout the night, which was extremely
dark, and at four in the morning surprised the French guards and
took the position. Scarcely had the Greys and Irish Dragoons, with a
few squadrons of horse, passed the lines, when the Marquis d'Allegre
appeared with twenty battalions of infantry and fifty squadrons of
cavalry. The Duke of Marlborough led his horse and dragoons forward,
and by an impetuous charge, broke the enemy's ranks. A short but fiery
conflict followed with varied success, and the Greys displayed their
usual spirit. Finally the enemy's squadrons were dispersed, their
standards and kettledrums were captured, and many officers and men were
taken prisoners. The enemy's infantry also suffered severely; a few
battalions however retired in a square in admirable order.

The campaign closed, and the Scots Greys marched to Dutch Brabant,
where they spent the winter.

From the archives of the Regiment:--

  "Early in 1705 the sheriff (_i.e._, Sir James Agnew) parted with
  his eldest son (Andrew), who at seventeen joined the army in
  Flanders as a volunteer. Pleased at the idea of the boy's winning
  his own spurs, he supplied him with a moderately well-filled purse,
  while his mother, along with her blessing, furnished him with an
  introduction to the Duke of Marlborough, as well as other letters
  of introduction. Thus furnished, the youth embarked, and reached
  the camp in February in safety, where he attached himself to the
  'Royal Grey Dragoons.' At the mess of this distinguished corps he
  met many friends from Galloway. His brother-in-law, Colonel Agnew,
  was Major, whose brother Thomas was also a Captain in the regiment;
  and among the subs. were the young Laird of Mochrun, George Dunbar,
  as well as John Dunbar, his youngest brother. Within a few weeks
  of his arrival he received, to his no small gratification, a
  commission signed by the Duke of Marlborough in camp at Rastad on
  the 11th of May, 1705, appointing Andrew Agnew to be cornet of that
  troop in Her Majesty's Royal Regiment of Scotts Dragoons, commanded
  by the Right Honourable John Hay, whereof Major Andrew Agnew is
  Captain."

Then come three pages of the adventures of the Greys in the campaign in
which the said Andrew took his part. He was afterwards the famous Sir
Andrew who fought in the Rebellion of 1745, and specially noted for his
defence of Blair Castle at that time.

  "Lord Mahon's History of England, Vol. I., chapter 5, page 155,
  edition Murray, 1853.

"1715.

  "Meanwhile the Duke of Argyle had arrived in Scotland about the
  middle of September, and hastened to the camp at Stirling. He had
  brought with him not a single battalion of troops, not one piece of
  artillery. He had found under his command no more than 1,000 foot,
  and a body of Dragoons, partly from that excellent regiment the
  Scots Greys, but altogether of only 500 men."

Sir Walter Scott, in his note on Sinclair's MS., page 304, wrote:--

  "The Dragoons called the Scots Greys, for many years maintained a
  character greatly superior to that of an ordinary regiment. They
  never gave a bounty exceeding a crown, and were recruited from
  a class of persons greatly superior to those who usually enter
  the army, such as the sons of decent farmers and tradesmen, who
  felt a vocation for the army. No ignominious punishment was ever
  inflicted, and a criminal who had merited such was previously
  transferred to another regiment."

[Illustration: "+Field Marshal John Dalrymple, Second Earl of Stair,
K.T.+"

+Born, 1673. Died, 1747.+

_From the Painting at Lochinch._]

Early in May, 1706, they left their winter quarters, and after crossing
the plains of Limburg and the rich valleys of Liege, they on May
20th joined the army encamped at Bilsen, and afterwards marched to
Borchloen. On May 23rd a detachment of the Greys, and several squadrons
of horse, were ordered to march towards Mont St. André, and were soon
after followed by the army in eight columns. There was a thick fog,
but the cavalry pushed on until they gained the heights near Mierdorp,
when through the misty dawn they espied a few of the enemy's cavalry
crossing the plains of St. André, and soon the fog lifting, the French
army was discovered in position at Ramillies. Advancing into the plains
of Tandrinœuil, the Allies prepared for action, the Queen's Horse, the
Greys, and the Royal Irish Dragoons, with Churchill's and Mordaunt's
regiments of infantry, being posted on the heights of Foulz on the
right of the line. About 1·30 in the afternoon the Allies began heavy
artillery fire, which was quickly answered by the enemy, and the action
became general. For some time the troops on the heights on the right
were only spectators, but Marlborough, seeing that an attack made by
the Dutch and Danish cavalry on the French Household regiments, Gens
D'Armes, Gardes du Corps, and others, was not succeeding, ordered his
right wing to advance. Churchill's and Mordaunt's regiments descended
first, and meeting three battalions of French infantry, drove them into
a morass, where most of them were killed or captured. At the same time
the Queen's Horse, the Greys, and the Irish Dragoons galloped through
the morass, crossed the high ground beyond it, and attacking the
enemy's left, routed the French cavalry, and cut several battalions of
infantry to pieces. The Greys charged into the village of Autreglize,
overthrew and sabred the infantry in the streets. Coming out of the
village, they encountered the famous French regiment du Roi, which
at once surrendered and delivered up its colours and arms to the
victorious Dragoons.

The contemporary account in the "London Gazette" was as follows:

  "The horse of their left wing seemed to make a stand to gain time
  for their foot to retire, but were charged so quickly and with so
  much bravery by the English, that they entirely abandoned the foot,
  and our Dragoons pushing into the village of Autreglize, made a
  terrible slaughter. The French King's Own regiment of foot called
  the regiment du Roi, begged for quarter, and delivered up their
  arms and colours to Lord John Hay's Dragoons (the Greys)."

In connection with the battle of Ramillies, some account must be given
of a woman, Christian Davies, or Mother Ross, who served as a trooper
in the Greys until, fighting at Ramillies, her skull was fractured, and
her sex afterwards discovered.

In 1740 appeared a book of nearly 200 pages, purporting to record her
life and adventures; also in 1893 she was included in a volume called
"Women Adventurers," published by T. Fisher Unwin. The account of her
given in the D. N. B. seems excellent. Presumably she was brave, but
she seems to have been a very coarse woman. Born in Dublin in 1667,
she married Richard Welsh. He, without her knowledge, was in some way
forced to enlist in a foot regiment, and wrote letters to his wife
which never reached her. At last she heard of his being in the army,
and so disguised herself as a soldier to go in search of him.

She enlisted in Captain Tichborne's company of foot as Christopher
Welch. In a skirmish before the battle of Landen she was wounded, and
in the next year--1694--taken prisoner by the French, but exchanged.

At her own wish she was now allowed to join the Greys, and continued
so until after the peace of Ryswick. On the renewal of war in 1701
she went back to Holland and re-enlisted in the Greys. She fought at
Niuwegen, Venloo, Bonn, and in most of the engagements of the campaign,
till at the battle of Donauwerth she received a ball in the hip,
which caused a temporary retirement into hospital. The ball was never
extracted, but Christian was again under arms in time to share in the
spoil after Blenheim. While forming one of a guard to some prisoners
taken in that battle, she again saw her husband after a separation of
thirteen years. She lost no time in revealing her identity to him; but
so enamoured was she of camp life that she extracted a promise from
Welsh that he would pass himself off as her brother. After Ramillies
she, of course, had to cease to be a trooper, but she still continued
to live in camp, and accompanied her husband as his acknowledged wife.
In 1709 Richard Welsh was killed at Malplaquet. Christian herself found
his body, and her lamentations were so extravagant as to excite the
open commiseration of a Captain Ross, whence it is said she gained the
sobriquet of Mother Ross, by which she was known for the rest of her
days. Although grieving so that for a whole week she refused to touch
food, she married Hugh Jones, a grenadier, within three months. In 1710
Jones was killed at the siege of Saint-Venant. In 1712 she returned to
England, was presented to Queen Anne, and awarded a life pension of a
shilling a day. She afterwards went to Dublin and married a soldier
named Davies. She died on July 7th, 1739, and, at her own request, her
body was interred among the pensioners in Chelsea burying ground, and
three grand volleys were fired over her grave.

After this great victory at Ramillies, on Whit Sunday, May 23rd, 1705,
the Greys were occupied in covering the successful sieges of several
fortified towns in Flanders, and in the autumn the British troops went
into quarters in Flanders, excepting the Royal Scots Greys and Irish
Dragoons, who proceeded to Holland.

Early in the spring of 1707 the Greys went to Spanish Brabant, and
encamped near the banks of the little river Sienne. In this year the
Acts of Parliament were passed for the Union of the crowns of England
and Scotland, and from that time the Greys were designated "The Royal
Regiment of North British Dragoons."

The army was assembled at Brussels, and afterwards encamped near
Weldert. The year passed off very quietly; but Richard Cannon found
some record of a sharp fight between twenty-five troopers of the Greys
sent out to cut forage and thirty French musketeers, the result alleged
being fourteen Frenchmen killed and the rest taken.

On July 11th, 1708, the Greys were engaged in the important battle of
Oudenarde, and this battle, with the story of the events preceding it,
is full of interest, but would be out of place in this record of one
particular regiment.

After this the Regiment formed part of the covering army, and was
employed in escorting provisions and ammunition to the troops laying
siege to Lisle, the capital of French Flanders. After Lisle had fallen
to the Allies, the Greys were sent into winter quarters in Flanders.
The winter proved extremely severe, and a considerable number of men
and horses are said to have been frozen to death.

In 1709 the Greys formed part of the troops covering the siege and fall
of Tournay; but the event of the year was the battle of Malplaquet,
fought on September 11th, 1709. The Greys were brigaded with the Royal
Irish Dragoons, under Brigadier-General Sybourg. They were posted near
the centre of the Allied Army to sustain the attacks of the infantry
and protect the artillery, and for some time were only spectators
of the fierce storm of battle which raged on all sides; at length,
however, they were ordered to file through a wood in their front, and
charge. Scarcely had the brigade emerged from among the trees before it
encountered a line of French cavalry; these squadrons were, however,
soon dispersed, but they were instantly succeeded by a new line of
champions, consisting of a number of squadrons of the French household
cavalry, clad in armour, and advancing in firm array. Richard Cannon
has described how the Greys and Irish Dragoons met these foaming
squadrons with signal bravery, but were driven from their ground by
superior numbers. The two regiments soon rallied, and being joined
by several corps of horse, returned to the charge; yet such was the
resolution displayed by the French troopers that it was not until the
third charge that they were driven from the field. The two victorious
regiments were specially thanked by the Duke of Marlborough. The Greys
lost about thirty killed and wounded.

The regiment was afterwards employed in covering the siege of Mons,
the capital of Hainault, and after the surrender of Mons marched into
winter quarters at the little town of Tiel.

Malplaquet was a desperately hard-fought battle. Not for the first or
last time in our history, an important battle was nearly lost through
the imbecile action of the authorities at home in failing to support an
able general abroad.

In Coxe's "Marlborough," large paper edition, Vol. III., page 90, we
find the following:--

  "In considering the consequences of this eventful day, we cannot
  but applaud the foresight of Marlborough, who before the opening of
  the campaign had so earnestly pressed for a powerful augmentation
  of troops. He was conscious that the French were prepared to make
  their final effort in the Netherlands, and that he should have to
  contend with a far greater force than he had yet encountered. The
  battle proved that his calculations were well founded, and that an
  additional number of 10,000 men on that eventful day would have
  more contributed to the advancement of peace, than all the efforts
  of the ablest negotiators in Europe. The Allies, indeed, remained
  masters of the field; but the laurels of their two great commanders
  were deeply tinged with blood, and the result of the campaign was
  far from being commensurate with the sacrifice of so many valuable
  lives."

Of the springing valour displayed by the enemy on the day of
Malplaquet there can be no question, and a distinguished French officer
wrote to a correspondent at the time:--

  "The Eugenes and Marlboroughs ought to be well satisfied with us
  during that day; since till then they had not met with resistance
  worthy of them. They may say, with justice, that nothing can stand
  before them; and, indeed, what shall be able to stem the rapid
  course of these two heroes, if an army of 100,000 of the best
  troops, posted between two woods trebly entrenched, and performing
  their duty as well as any brave men could do, were not able to stop
  them for one day? Will you not then own with me, that they surpass
  all the heroes of former ages?"

Early in 1710 the regiment was joined by a remount of 100 men and
horses from Scotland, and marching from its cantonments, encamped on
high ground near Tournay. In the afternoon of April 20th it was again
on the march, and formed part of the First Division of the Allied
Army which forced the enemy's fortified lines at Pont-à-Vendin on
the 21st, and encamped at night on the plain of Lens; and afterwards
helping in covering the siege of Douay, a strong town on the river
Scarpe, and finally was stationed at Pont-à-Nache. While here, the Duke
of Marlborough, by special commission from Queen Anne, invested its
Colonel--the Earl of Stair--with the Order of the Thistle.

On May 10th the enemy made a sudden sally from Fort Scarpe to take
the bread waggons going to the Allies; but reaching Pont-à-Nache,
their career was suddenly stopped by a squadron of the Greys, and two
squadrons of the Royal Irish Dragoons, who came sweeping up the plain
at full gallop, and routing the enemy in an instant, chased them with
heavy loss under the cannon of the fort. Lieutenant-Colonel Caldwell,
of the Royal Irish Dragoons, who commanded the three squadrons, was
wounded in the pursuit.

After the fall of Douay, the Greys crossed the country of Artois to the
banks of the river Bietres; and encamped before Bethune, which was at
once besieged. They were subsequently occupied in escorting military
stores up the country, and after the taking of Bethune, they were
occupied with the sieges of Aire and Saint-Venant. The surrender of
Aire ended the campaign.

Early in May, 1711, the army assembled in French Flanders, and
encamped, first at Warde, and next on the plain of Lens. After
manœuvring skilfully, Marlborough succeeded in forcing the enemy's
lines by the causeway at Arleux, crossed the Scheldt, and besieged
Bouchain. In all this the Greys took part. After the fall of Bouchain,
the army retired into winter quarters.

In 1712 the French sued for peace, and the Greys marched from the
frontiers of Picardy into Flanders, staying there until the signing of
the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. They then returned to England at the
close of eleven years of hard war service.

A satisfactory change now took place in the official status of the
Greys. In 1694, when many English, Irish, and Scots regiments were
serving in the Netherlands, King William commanded a board of general
officers to assemble and decide upon the rank of the several corps.
This board gave precedence to the English regiments, and the Scots
and Irish were only allowed to take rank in the English army from the
date of their first arrival in England, or from the date when they
were first placed on the English establishment. There being three
regiments of English Dragoons raised previous to 1688, when the Royal
Scots Dragoons were first placed upon the English establishment, this
regiment consequently obtained rank as Fourth Dragoons only.

But in 1713, when Queen Anne had ordered another board of general
officers to assemble to decide upon the rank of several newly-raised
regiments, proof was adduced that the Royal Scots Dragoon crossed the
Border and entered England in June, 1685, when there was only one
regiment of Dragoons on the English establishment.

This was taken into consideration, and after some delay the Scots Greys
obtained the rank of Second Dragoons.

Regiments were not, however, distinguished by numerical titles before
the reign of George the Second.

In 1713 the regiment was increased to nine troops.

The Greys were next occupied in quelling the Rebellion of the Old
Pretender, and here they won special distinction.

In 1719 the Jacobites, aided by Spain, made another attempt on
Scotland, but were routed on June 10th at Strachell. Three troops of
the Greys under Major Robinson were engaged.

[Illustration: +Grenadier Cap of the Scots Greys+, 1743.

Preserved in the Museum of the United Service Institution.]

[Illustration: +Farm Buildings--Lochinch, Castle Kennedy, Wigtonshire.+

The Farm Buildings used as Barracks by the Scots Greys under command of
John Earl of Stair. The Terraces at Lochinch were constructed by him
during the period the Greys were quartered there, and it is recorded
that the men of the regiment did the work.]

In April, 1721, reduced on account of peace to 207 men, the regiment
left Scotland, and was placed in cantonments in the northern counties
of England. In 1723 it returned to Scotland, and in 1725 marched into
quarters in Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire.

Early in 1727 the Regiment was again increased to nine troops, and it
was ordered to be ready for foreign service, but no embarkation took
place. The nine troops were marched into quarters near Hounslow, and
on October 28th were reviewed on the heath by King George the Second.
They afterwards marched into quarters in Yorkshire, where the three
augmentation troops were reduced, and the numbers of the establishment
of the Regiment fixed at 309 officers and men.

In 1730 the Regiment was again in Scotland.

In 1737 it came back to England, and was chiefly busy on the Kentish
coast suppressing smugglers.

In April, 1738, the regiment marched into Dorset and Wilts, to suppress
popular riots.

In September, 1739, the Regiment was increased to 435 officers and men.
Richard Cannon pictures the regiment spending the following summer
encamped among the ancient oaks in Windsor Forest. In October it
marched into Yorkshire, but soon came south again and was quartered in
Berkshire.

Charles the Sixth, Emperor of Germany, died in 1740, and England was a
party to the Pragmatic Sanction by which the crown was guaranteed to
his daughter Maria Theresa as Queen of Hungary and Bohemia.

On the other hand, the Elector of Bavaria, as descendant of Ferdinand
the First, claimed these countries, and was supported by the French
King, Louis the Fourteenth.

On June 19th, 1742, the Greys were reviewed by King George the Second
on Kew Green, and three days later marched for Dover. A publication
called "The Champion" records:--

  "On Tuesday, General Campbell's fine regiment of Scots Greys
  arrived in the Borough of Southwark on their march to Dover, where
  they are to embark for Flanders. They are fine hardy fellows, and
  want no seasoning, and made an appearance agreeable to all but the
  innkeepers."

For the two great campaigns that now followed I copy from the archives
preserved by the Regiment a

         "+Note from the British Military Library or Journal,
                           published 1799.+

       *       *       *       *       *

  "This regiment frequently distinguished itself in the wars of King
  William and Queen Anne, and in many actions by its own individual
  prowess might justly be said to have inclined the balance in favour
  of the British arms, nor was it less active in the Rebellion of
  1715.

  "In the battles of Dettingen and Fontenoy, the cool, intrepid and
  invincible courage of this corps was eminently conspicuous.

  "In the battle of Dettingen, the French were commanded by the
  celebrated Marshal de Noailles, and the Allied Army by his late
  Majesty King George the Second and the great Duke of Cumberland.
  The French had nearly effected the utter ruin of the Allies, by
  surrounding them, in order to cut off all supplies, in which case
  the whole must have been reduced to the disagreeable necessity of
  surrendering at the mercy of the enemy, nor could anything short
  of the most unexampled heroism rescue them from the impending
  danger--that heroism was not wanting. The combined troops, animated
  by the presence and example of the King and Prince, little regarded
  the enemy's vast superiority of numbers, while the Earl of Stair
  made a vigorous charge with the cavalry, among whom were the Scots
  Greys, then under the command of Sir James Campbell, an officer of
  high talents in his profession, and who signalised himself on this
  occasion in a manner which proved him truly worthy the command.
  Unfortunately for his country and the service this meritorious
  officer fell by a cannon shot the succeeding year, at the battle of
  Fontenoy in 1744.

  "In this battle, fought on the 30th of April, than which few have
  been more bloody, the laurel was snatched from the enemy by this
  corps and three others, who covered the British and Hanoverian
  Infantry, under General Lord Ligonier, and that in so gallant a
  manner as to render wholly abortive one of the greatest objects of
  the French commander, for the timid Dutch had retreated, leaving a
  wing of the Allied Army exposed to the enemy, and this, although
  supported by two British battalions.

  "The hazard was great and the moment more critical inasmuch as
  its brave Colonel was killed and his post left defective for a
  considerable time until His Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland
  ordered some pieces of cannon to be brought up, at the head of the
  Foot Guards, which soon silenced the enemy's guns, and by exciting
  universal admiration at the General's presence of mind in the midst
  of such danger, the troops were roused to unusual exertions and
  actually took possession of some of their batteries, although, to
  effect this, they were necessarily exposed to a most terrible and
  incessant cannonade. Perhaps the page of history could not produce
  a parallel to the bravery of the British troops in this engagement,
  who, after having stood for upwards of three hours the incessant
  fire of three strong batteries, could drive the French, their
  superiors in point of number, from their lines into their Camp;
  who when thinned in their ranks, tired with slaughter and almost
  sinking beneath their wounds, could break the same host of troops,
  drive them back a second time, and at length make good a safe
  retreat, at the moment when the enemy was reinforced by seven fresh
  battalions."

At the risk of seeming lengthy, I must here add, without pretending to
edit it, a paragraph from Cannon's very scarce record:--

  "A tremendous cannonade was followed by volleys of musketry and
  charges of cavalry. The Greys supported the infantry for some
  time; but at length they were led forward by their Colonel, the
  chivalrous and daring Lieutenant-General James Campbell, against a
  line of French Cuirassiers. Their grey horses and grenadier caps
  rendered them conspicuous--their noble bearing excited admiration.
  Before them appeared the enemy's squadrons, formidable in numbers,
  and bright in polished armour; but undismayed by the opposing ranks
  of war, the Greys raised a loud huzza, and rushed at speed upon
  their steel-clad opponents, who were overthrown and pursued to the
  rear of their own lines....

  "The Greys pursued their adversaries to the banks of the river,
  and captured a White Standard, with which they returned in
  triumph to their own lines, where they received the expression
  of the approbation of their Sovereign, who had witnessed their
  gallantry.... The standard was of white damask, finely embroidered
  with gold and silver; a thunderbolt in the middle, upon a blue and
  white ground; motto, _Sensere Gigantes_."

The following interesting 1747 record I copy from the Manuscript Papers
now preserved by the Greys:--

  "Extract from the Record Book of the Enniskilling Dragoons.

"Signed, +E. M. W. Gres+, Major.

  "1747. The Duke of Cumberland arrived at the Hague on the 15th of
  February. The French made some hostile movements in April. The
  Allied Army were encamped near to Antwerp, their right extending
  to Breschater. The army of the Allies marched 30th of June in
  three columns towards Lonaken, and encamped between that place and
  Ghenck. The French corps of the Count de Clermont occupied the high
  ground from Tongress to Tonggrebech. His Royal Highness the Duke of
  Cumberland and Marshal Bathiani resolved to take possession of the
  camp of Bilsen. On the 2nd of July an action was fought between
  Tongress and Bilsen, near Maestricht, called the battle of Keselt
  or of Lafeldt, or Vol. The British cavalry charged and broke the
  enemy's first line, and afterwards when His Royal Highness was with
  them, charged a second time and broke the enemy again; hereupon the
  enemy made a desperate effort on the centre of the Allies; their
  squadrons penetrated and divided the army.

  "At this juncture the British cavalry, led on by Sir John Ligonier,
  charged the French with so much success that they overthrew all
  before them, but too eager in pursuit of the enemy, received a
  sharp fire from the Foot, which they had posted in a hollow way and
  some hedges, to favour the flight of their horse, by which they
  suffered a good deal; they dispersed, however, that Foot and some
  fresh squadrons which the enemy had sent down upon them, but was
  all in vain whilst the army was divided in two.

  "His Royal Highness, therefore, called the Cavalry off and sent
  word to the Marshal that he should retire towards Maestricht, and
  would move towards Velt Wesel and Lanaken to favour his Retreat.
  This done, he retired the left wing slowly and in good order,
  bringing off all the heavy field artillery. His Royal Highness gave
  the greatest commendation to His Majesty's British and Electoral
  troops, of which there was not a squadron or Battalion which did
  not charge and beat the enemy more than once. The Scots Greys,
  the Duke's, Rothe's, the 6th Inniskilling, and Sir Robert Rich's
  Dragoons, gave the French cavalry a prodigious overthrow and took
  several standards.

  "The Brigade of Scotch and Irish in the French service fought
  desperately, and would have taken the Duke of Cumberland prisoner,
  had not Sir John Ligonier come up with a party of cavalry and
  thereby saved His Royal Highness.

  "The Allies took five standards and seven pair of Colours. In this
  Battle the Regiment suffered severely. The allies passed to the
  eastern side of the Meuse immediately after the Battle of 2nd of
  July. Encamped at Gronfelt. The French laid siege to Bergen Op Zoom:

  "Several sallies and skirmishes. In August the Allies moved nearer
  to Liege. The French had their left towards Tongress and their
  right towards Liege.

  "Bergen Op Zoom taken by the French 16th September.

  "In October the troops went into winter quarters on the Dutch
  Frontier in the neighbourhood of Breda.

  "The Duke of Cumberland and General Ligonier arrived in England
  13th November.

  "20th November five regiments of Foot embarked at Gravesend for
  Flanders."

[The latter part of the foregoing extract is curiously worded; but I
have made no alterations.--E. A.]




CHAPTER III.


The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle was signed on October 7th, 1748, and the
Greys returned to England, and were stationed at Leicester, Coventry,
and Warwick. By the usual mean and miserable policy, or want of any
policy, the Regiment was at once reduced to 285 officers and men!
(In time of peace, always take care not to be prepared for war.) In
December, 1749, the Regiment went into quarters in Kent, and was
employed on revenue duty on the coast. In 1750 they were in Sussex and
Devon, and in 1751 in Dorsetshire. The Regiment marched into Lancashire
in the spring of 1753; with detached troops in Somersetshire, where
it was stationed during the following year; and in the spring of
1755 proceeded to Northampton and other towns in that part of the
kingdom. Complications now coming to a point about British and French
possessions in North America, the Regiment's establishment was made up
to 357 of all ranks, and very soon a light troop was added, in the same
way as light companies had been added to regiments of infantry.

In the summer of 1755 the Greys occupied quarters in Herefordshire and
in the winter months were dispersed in cantonments in Kent. In the next
spring they marched into Surrey, and afterwards into Dorsetshire, and
in June encamped with several other corps near Blandford.

In April, 1757, they went into cantonments in Essex, staying there four
months, and then going into Suffolk. In October four troops proceeded
to Newmarket.

An expedition was now made ready for a descent on the coast of France,
and the "light troop," commanded by Captain Francis Lindsay, was
ordered on this service.

The following is from the "Weekly Journal," 23 May, 1758:--

  "The nine troops of Hussars (Light Dragoons) belonging to the nine
  regiments of cavalry, are now preparing to go upon this expedition.
  The flower of these Hussars is the troop commanded by Captain
  Lindsay, quartered at Maidenhead, where they have been practising
  the Prussian exercise, and for some days have been digging large
  trenches and leaping over them, also leaping high hedges with broad
  ditches on the other side. Their Captain on Saturday last, swam
  with his horse over the Thames and back again; and the whole troop
  were yesterday to swim the river."

On June 5th, 1758, the Brigade landed on the coast of France about nine
miles from St. Malo, and on the 7th set fire to the shipping in St.
Malo.

The troops having succeeded in this, now came home again.

In August the Greys light troop formed part of another expedition which
captured Cherbourg. After returning to England the light troop was
quartered in towns on the coast of Sussex.

The Greys were among the troops sent to Germany under the command of
Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick in the year 1758, at which time the Duke
of Argyle commanded the Regiment. These troops landed at Embden on the
20th of July and were headed by the Duke of Marlborough and the Lord
George Sackville.

Still did their gallantry and good conduct preserve to them the high
opinion which the Regiment had so justly merited in every conflict to
which its squadrons were exposed.

The following notes are from a volume (belonging to the Regiment)
lettered outside

"+Regimental Orders+, 1759."

Inside:--

  "Copied from an old Regimental Order Book in possession of R. B.
  Wardlaw Ramsay, Esqre., of Whitehill, Laeswale.

                        "+Piershill Barracks.+
                             "+Edinburgh+
                               "+1873.+
                        "+Tule+, 8 January 1759
                         "+Weaver+ 12 January
                          "+Wever+ 19 January

  "The Major recommends it to the commanding officers of Troops,
  that before they clear their men, they will stop from each man
  for a pair of new shoes to carry into the field with them, as he
  apprehends those they have will be wore out before that time.

  "+Wever+, 22ⁿᵈ January

  "A stiver to be stopped from each man for having his hatt cocked,
  which the Major hopes the men wont be against paying as it is for
  their own advantage.

  "+Wever+, 25 January.

  "The Troops to send the Bread waggons for their Hatts and Gloves on
  Monday next, and no man to presume to alter the Cock, otherwise it
  will be done over again, and he be obliged to pay every time it is
  not in shape.

  "+Tule+, 6 January

  "George. Farrier of Captain Douglas's Troop to be sent to Head
  Quarters to cock all the New Hats.

  "The men not to dispose of their old Hats, as they will serve for
  the Nosebags.

  "+Wever+                        27 January
  "+Engern+                       21 March   1759
  "+Neider Meiser+                22  "
  "+Ober Velner+                  24  "
  "+Rangershausen+                26  "
  "+Hanven+                       27  "      Tuesday
             (Buff caps sold here)
  "+Herschfeld+                   28  "
  "+Grebenan+                     29  "
  "+Affhausen+                    30  "
  "+Ofhausen+                      1  April, Sunday
  "   "                            4   "
  "   "                            5   "
  "   "                            6   "
  "   "                            7   "
  "   "                            8   "     Sunday
  "   "                            9   "
  "+Richlos+                      10   "
  "+Heldenbergen+                 12   "
               (13th fighting.)
  "+Wendroken Camp+               14   "
  "+Waryenburn+                   15 April   1759
  "+Bergesernesde+                17 April
  "+Neidierbessingen+             18   "
                (19th fighting.)
  "+Alsfelt+                      20   "
  "+Gabersdorff+                  22   "     Sunday
  "+Neidzuren+                    27   "     Friday
  "+Neiderzueren+                 29 April   1759
  "+Steinhausen+                  17 May
  "+Beringbrocet+                 19  "
  "+Beren Broick+                 21  "
  "+Gronenberg+                   26  "
  "+Werle Camp+                    7 June.
  "   "    "                       9  "

  "It is Lord George Sackville's orders that for the future, the
  officers and men of the Cavalry carry their swords upright, with
  the hilt resting on the Right Pistol, that the Regiment march by
  Sub-Divisions, and the officers strictly keep their posts. These to
  be standing orders for the whole British cavalry for the future.

  "+Toest Camp+                   11 June
  "+Aurnchte Camp+                13  "
  "+Brink Camp+                   15  "
  "+Overhagen Camp+               19  "
  "+Ritberg Camp+                 22  "
  "+Marienvelt Camp+              30  "
  "+Disson Camp+                   3 July
  "+Osneburg Camp+                 8  "
  "+Stoltzenaw+                   15  "
  "+Hilbs Camp+                   31  "
  "+Petershagen Camp+             23  "

  "From the "London Gazette," Saturday, September 6th, 1760.

  "+Hague+, Septr. 1st.

  "By the last letters from Prince Ferdinand's Army, which are of
  the 28th past, we have received information that the French under
  Marshall Broglio, left their camp upon the Dymel in the night
  between the 21st and 22nd, marching off by their right, and that
  the Hereditary Prince crossed that river on the 22nd at the head
  of 12,000 men, in order to gain the left flank of the enemy. That
  the advanced troops of that corps came up with their rearguard near
  Zierenberg; and that, after the light troops on each side had been
  engaged with different success, the Hereditary Prince arrived in
  person with the Greys and Iniskilling Dragoons, supported by the
  English Grenadiers, and put an end to the affair in a quarter of an
  hour, by forcing the enemy to a precipitate flight with great loss."

      The "London Gazette," Saturday, September 13th, to Tuesday,
                         September 16th, 1760.

"Prince Ferdinand's Head Quarters at Buhne, Sept. 9.

  "On the 5th past, a very considerable body of the enemy, amounting
  to 20,000 men and upwards, attempted to make a general forage in
  the neighbourhood of Geismar; But Prince Ferdinand, having received
  previous intelligence of their design, crossed the Dymel early
  in the morning of that day, and went in person with a corps of
  troops to oppose them; and though His Serene Highness was much
  inferior in number to the French, yet he took his precautions so
  well, by occupying some advantageous heights, and placing artillery
  there, that he rendered the enemy's attempt totally ineffectual,
  notwithstanding a large portion of their Army was in motion to
  cover the foragers.

  "On the morning of that day likewise, the Hereditary Prince
  (upon intelligence that the volunteers of Clermont and Dauphiné,
  consisting each, when compleat, of 600 Horse and 600 foot, were
  cantoned at Zierenberg; and, from the very small distance of the
  French camp at Dierenberg, thought themselves in perfect security)
  went from his camp at Warbourg to Maltzberg, which is not much more
  than a league from Zierenberg, without seeing any of their Posts,
  or meeting any of their Patroles. This made His Serene Highness
  resolve on an attempt to surprise them; for which purpose he
  ordered five Battalions, a Detachment of 150 Highlanders under the
  command of Captain McLeon, and eight squadrons of Dragoons to be
  ready to march at eight at night.

  "They left their tents standing, and passed the Dymel near
  Warbourg; Maxwell's Battalion of Grenadiers, the Detachment of
  Highlanders, and Kingsley's Regiment, forming the Head of the
  Column. These were followed by two other Battalions of Grenadiers
  and by Block's Regiment. The eight squadrons of Dragoons were
  Block's, the Greys, and Iniskillings. At the village of Witzen,
  about a league on the other side of the Dymel, we found all the
  light troops, which were under Major Bulow's command, and whose
  destination was to turn the town of Zierenberg, and to take post
  between it and Durenberg, in order to intercept whoever should
  attempt passing to the enemy's Camp. At the entrance of a large
  wood, near Maltzberg, the Greys and Iniskillings were posted.
  At Maltzberg, a Battalion of Grenadiers. The other Battalion of
  Grenadiers, the regiment of Block, and Block's Dragoons, were
  posted at proper distances between Maltzberg and Zierenberg to
  cover us, in case we had been repulsed and pursued. At a mill,
  about two English miles from the town and within sight of the fires
  of the enemy's grand guards, Maxwell's Grenadiers took one Road,
  Kingsley's Regiment and the Detachment of Highlanders another.
  When we came within less than half a mile of the Town the vedettes
  of their grand guards challenged us, but did not push forward to
  reconnoitre us. Our men marched in the most profound silence.
  In a few minutes we saw the fires of their piquets, which they
  had posted close to the Town. The noise of our trampling over
  gardens gave them the alarm, and they began to fire; upon which
  our Grenadiers, who had marched with unloaded firelocks (as had
  been agreed on), ran on towards the town, pushed the Piquets, and
  having killed the guard at the gate, rushed into the Town, and
  drove everything before them. Never was a more compleat surprize.
  The attack was so sudden, that the enemy had not time to get
  together in any numbers, but began to fire at us from the windows;
  upon which our men rushed into the houses, and for some time made
  a severe use of their Bayonets. They afterwards loaded and killed
  a great many of the enemy, who had mounted their horses. It was
  about two in the morning when we got into the Town, and about
  three the Prince ordered the Retreat, after we had taken M. de
  Norman, Brigadier, who commanded the volunteers of Dauphiné, and
  M. de Comeiras, Colonel of those of Clermont, with about 40 more
  officers and 300 private men. The number of killed and wounded is
  very considerable, from an ill-judged resistance of those who were
  in the houses; but in justice to our men, it must be said that
  they gave quarter to all who asked it; and there are several noble
  instances of their refusing to take money from their prisoners, who
  offered them their purses. General Griffin, who went into the Town
  at the head of Kingsley's Regiment, received a thrust in the breast
  with a Bayonet (as it is supposed from one of our own people) upon
  hearing him talk French to a soldier whom he had seized, and who
  would not quit his firelock, but the wound is a very slight one.
  What makes this affair the more satisfactory is that it has not
  cost us ten men, which is wonderful in a night attack, where we
  might have expected to have lost more by our own mistaking friends
  for foes.

  "The behaviour of the Officers and the bravery of the Troops upon
  this occasion deserve the greatest commendation. Lord George Lennox
  was a volunteer in this expedition, and had his horse wounded under
  him by a shot from a window. With our prisoners we brought off two
  pieces of cannon, and had we had time to search the houses the
  number of our prisoners would have been doubled; but as day was
  coming on, and we might have been cut off from Warburg, we returned
  the same way we came, and arrived there at eight in the morning of
  the 6th without being at all molested."

In 1763 a treaty of peace was signed, and as early as February, 1763,
the Greys quitted Germany, and marching through Holland, embarked at
Williamstadt in North Brabant, landed at Gravesend, and proceeded to
Hereford. Soon the light troop, which had remained in England, was
disbanded, but 8 men per troop were now equipped as Light Dragoons.
The establishment was reduced to 213 men! In November the Regiment
marched to Scotland, and were stationed at Dalkeith and Musselburgh;
but soon returned South, and in 1764 were stationed at Manchester and
Warrington. In April, 1765, they marched to Worcester and Pershore. In
1766 they went to Sussex.

At this date "Drummers," who had been on the establishment from the
foundation of the Corps, were ordered to be replaced by "Trumpeters."

In May, 1767, the Regiment marched to Canterbury, and in the winter of
1768 it was in winter cantonments in Lincoln and Boston.

In 1769 they went to Scotland, returning the next year to Warwick,
Lichfield and Stratford-upon-Avon.

The greater part of 1771 was spent in cantonments in Dorsetshire and
Somersetshire. In 1772 the Regiment was stationed at Canterbury,
with detachments on coast duty in Kent. In May, 1773, it marched
into quarters at Greenwich and the neighbouring villages; and on May
22nd King George the Third reviewed the Greys,--expressing his high
admiration of the Regiment's appearance and discipline.

The newspapers of the time describe the day as particularly fine, and
allude to the great crowds assembled to witness "the martial appearance
and correct manœuvring of this gallant old corps."

The Regiment now went to Ipswich and Bury St. Edmund's, and in the
autumn extended its quarters to Norwich. In 1774 it marched to York,
and again sent detachments on coast duty. In the spring of 1775 it
marched again North, and remained in Scotland until April, 1776.
After this it spent 11 months in Lancashire. Next the Regiment went
to Worcester for a summer station, passing the autumn in Gloucester,
Tewkesbury, Pershore, and Ludlow.

In 1778, when the War of Independence broke out, no heavy cavalry corps
were sent to North America; but the establishment of the Greys was
increased by some 250 men and horses, and 48 of these were equipped as
Light Dragoons. The "light" part of the Regiment now consisted of 6
sergeants, 6 corporals, and 84 private men; and in April, 1779, these
light horsemen were incorporated, with detachments from the 7th, 15th
and 16th Dragoons, into a Regiment which was numbered 21st Dragoons.
During the summer of 1779 the Greys were encamped on Salisbury Plain,
and other Dragoon Regiments with them. In November the Regiment went
into quarters at Marlborough, Chippenham, Colne, and Malmesbury.

In the autumn of 1780 they marched into Worcestershire.

In January, 1781, two troops requisitioned by magistrates on account
of disturbances, marched to Ludlow. In June the Regiment marched into
Dorsetshire.

In 1782 the Regiment was at Durham, and in 1783 went north to Scotland.
In this year, peace having been made with the United States of America,
the Regiment's establishment was reduced to 232 all told.

In 1784 they marched south, and were stationed 11 months in Manchester.

In April, 1785, they went to Worcester.

In the summer of 1786 they occupied extensive cantonments in
Dorsetshire, and early in 1787 four troops were called in to aid the
civil power in Wiltshire. In June the Regiment marched into quarters in
Hampshire.

In April, 1788, they were in quarters near Hounslow, and thence went
to Ipswich, removing in the summer of 1789 to Nottinghamshire and
Lincolnshire. Early in 1790 the Regiment marched into Yorkshire; from
there 3 troops were soon sent to Newcastle-on-Tyne, and in September
the other 3 troops marched to Durham. In the spring of 1791 they
marched to Scotland, returning in the spring of 1792, and quartering in
Lancashire. In December, 1792, an increase of 60 men was ordered.

The French Revolution having broken out, the Regiment was, in 1793,
made up to 9 troops of 54 non-commissioned officers and men each; and
soon 4 troops were ordered to be held perfectly ready for foreign
service.

On January 20th, 1793, Louis the Sixteenth was murdered. The French
envoy was at once ordered to leave England, and on February the 3rd the
Convention declared war against England. The French attacked Holland,
and a united British and Hanoverian force, commanded by the Duke of
York, went to the help of the Dutch.

On July the 9th, 1793, 4 troops of the Greys embarked at Blackwall for
Flanders. The rest were left at Worcester, Tewkesbury and neighbouring
towns. The 4 troops landed at Ostend on July 16th, and marching towards
France joined the army laying siege to Valenciennes. After Valenciennes
had been taken, they were at first occupied in covering the siege of
Dunkirk; but this was soon abandoned, and they were next occupied near
Lisle, and made a successful charge against some French cavalry on the
heights of Cateau Cambresis. In November the 4 troops marched to Ghent.

The 5 troops remaining in England were increased to 80 men each.

In February, 1794, the 4 troops quitted Ghent for Beveren.

On April the 17th, after joining the army on the plains of Cateau, they
supported the infantry attack on the villages of Vaux and Prêmont.

At day-break on May the 10th, the army was in position on the heights
in front of Tournay, the Greys being formed in column of troops behind
the left wing. The Bays, Greys, and Inniskilling Dragoons forming one
brigade, advanced in open column of half-squadrons, with the Duke of
York at their head; on approaching the enemy they formed line under a
heavy cannonade and charged.

The following is in the Honourable J. W. Fortescue's account, Vol. IV.,
p. 249, of his splendid new _History of the British Army_:--

"At last, however, a little to the south of Willems, the battalion-guns
of the British infantry came up and opened fire, when the French, after
receiving a few shots, began to waver. The squadrons again charged,
and an officer of the Greys, galloping straight at the largest of
the squares, knocked down three men as he rode into it, wheeled his
horse round and overthrew six more, and thus made a gap for the entry
of his men. The sight of one square broken and dispersed demoralised
the remainder of the French. Two more squares were ridden down, and
for the third time the British sabres had free play among the French
infantry.... Not for eighteen years was the British Cavalry destined
again to ride over French battalions as they rode on this day; and
then Stapleton Cotton was fated once more to be present, leading not a
squadron of Carabiniers, but a whole division of horse to the charge at
Salamanca. But the 10th of May 1794 is chiefly memorable as marking the
date on which the new French infantry showed itself not unworthy of the
old."

In November, 1795, the 4 troops of Greys embarked at Bremen for England
and landed at South Shields on Christmas Eve. From here they went to
Northallerton, and in February, 1796, joined the rest of the Regiment
at Canterbury.

In July of this year the Regiment was encamped near Weymouth; in
September it went into quarters at Dorchester, Bridport, Weymouth, and
Wareham.

Late in 1797 the Regiment marched to Nottingham, Loughborough,
Leicester, and Ashby-de-la-Zouch; in July, 1798, it was encamped
in Windsor Forest, and in September went from there to Birmingham,
Coventry, and Lichfield.

In the summer of 1799 the Regiment went to Dorchester, Bridport, and
Weymouth. A ninth troop was now added, and in April, 1800, a tenth was
added. A force called the Fencible Cavalry was disbanded, and from it
81 men, with 220 horses, were drafted to the Greys.

In October, 1800, the Regiment marched to Salisbury, Southampton,
Blandford, Rumsey, and Portsmouth.

In 1801 the Greys marched to Dorchester.

Now came the inevitable policy of parsimony, and no war being on hand,
the Greys establishment was reduced to 8 troops of 29 officers, 8
quarter-masters, 28 sergeants, 8 trumpeters, and 480 rank and file,
including 10 dismounted men in each troop.

In July, 1802, the Regiment marched to Croydon, Rumsey, and Eastbourne.

The folly of reduction was now shown. War opened with France again in
1803, and the Regiment's strength was brought up to 10 troops. Its
efficiency was also promoted by adding 3 captains, and thus releasing
the field officers from the charge of troops. The establishment now
became 51 officers, 10 quarter-masters, 54 sergeants, 10 trumpeters,
and 1,000 rank and file.

In June, 1803, the Regiment marched to Canterbury, staying there nearly
two years, the period when Napoleon Bonaparte, First Consul of France,
was hourly expected to attempt an attack on our coast.

In May of 1805 the Greys marched to Ipswich and Colchester.

On Thursday, January 9th, 1806, Lord Nelson was buried in St. Paul's
Cathedral, and two squadrons of the Greys took part in the procession
on this occasion.

Soon afterwards the Regiment marched into Yorkshire and
Northumberland; and the talk of invasion having passed off, the
Regiment was once more reduced, and the establishment became 40
officers, 10 quarter-masters, and 854 non-commissioned officers and men.

In January, 1807, the Regiment marched to Scotland. In June, 1808, the
Regiment sailed to Ireland. In June, 1809, an alteration was made by
substituting a regimental quarter-master and 10 troop sergeant-majors,
in the place of the 10 troop quarter-masters.

In 1810 the Regiment sailed from Dublin for England, and now
occupied quarters in Yorkshire and Lancashire. In the spring of 1813
the quarters of the Regiment were extended to Leicestershire and
Derbyshire. Two troops were left at Birmingham, and in December 8
troops marched to Canterbury, remaining there and at Dover, Deal, and
Hythe.

The following account relates to the review in Hyde Park before the
Prince Regent, the King of Prussia, and the Czar of Russia, on June
21st, 1814, and is from _The Times_ of Wednesday, the 23rd:--

  "It is little less than impossible to keep pace in the public
  journals with all the movements of the illustrious personages
  now in the British metropolis, or to describe the affectionate
  zeal with which they are received.... Our army has now, with
  great reason, become as much our boast as our navy, and therefore
  the display of its merits--of the persons, the horses, the
  accoutrements, of its component parts--ought to excite as great an
  interest as the exhibition of our ships of war and their equipages.
  Their Majesties, we have reason to believe, were as highly
  gratified by the review as British hearts could wish. A detachment
  of the Greys attended the great potentates, accompanied by the
  Hetman Platoff and a small detachment of Cossacks.

  "They were received with the loudest shouts by the populace.
  The Prince Regent, who was accompanied on one side by the King
  of Prussia, and on the other by the Emperor of Russia, was
  greeted with high applause. He was followed by Blucher and a most
  magnificent staff, superbly attired."

In July, 1814, the Regiment was reduced to 8 troops, amounting to 584
officers and men, including 16 dismounted men for each troop. In a few
months the Regiment went into winter quarters at Bristol and Trowbridge.

Early in 1815 Napoleon was once more in France, and the Greys
establishment was again made up to 10 troops, comprising in all 946
officers and men. Six troops were to be held in readiness to go abroad,
and the other four were marched to Ipswich.




CHAPTER IV.


Before giving the several interesting contemporary records of 1815 in
possession of the Regiment, allusion must be made to the two touching
original records now belonging to the Regiment, relating to Colonel
Hamilton, the commanding officer killed at Waterloo. One is a letter
of May 15th, 1793, acquainting a Mr. Anderson that "the King had been
pleased to appoint Jamie a cornet in the Royal North British Dragoons."

The other letter is dated July 10th, 1815, and is from James Swan, 53,
York Place, Edinburgh, to Mr. McLachlane, Writer, Glasgow. The letter
records Colonel Hamilton's (son Jamie's) death.

A folio volume, lettered outside:--

  "Royal Scots Greys, Waterloo, 18th June, 1815, letters, etc.,
  connected with Lieutenant-Colonel Inglis Hamilton, who was killed
  in action, in command of the regiment at Waterloo."

Inside is:--

  "The letters in this book relating to the history of
  Lieutenant-Colonel Inglis Hamilton were presented to the officers
  of the Regiment, on the occasion of the celebration of the
  Bicentenary of the raising of the Regiment, on the 18th of June,
  1881, by the family of the late Peter Mackenzie, Esq., author of
  the 'Reminiscences of Glasgow.' The papers were entrusted to the
  charge of Mr. Mackenzie by the sisters of Lieut.-Colonel Hamilton.

                                "+John W. Hozier+, Lieut.-Colonel.
                                   "Commanding Scots Greys."

  "Royal Barracks, Dublin,
    "18th June, 1881."

  "This book in which the papers are now preserved, was presented by
  Lieutenant-Colonel Hozier."

  "Major-General Hamilton has to acquaint Mr. Anderson that he
  received on Sunday night a card from Lord Amherst, acquainting him
  that the King had been pleased to appoint Jamie a cornet in the
  Royal North British Dragoons, at the same time his Lordship called
  him James Hamilton. How this has happened he cannot say, as the
  General has received no explanation, but can assure Mr. Anderson
  that he gave in his name when in London to the Secretary at War
  Jas. Anderson; he likewise gave in his name on Watson's return from
  Glasgow, my godson James Anderson, since which he has heard little
  until last night, but has wrote this day.

  "If the nomination is given in and past recall, the General hopes
  that Mr. Anderson will agree to it, as it must be of such advantage
  to the young man. Besides, he has to acquaint Mr. Anderson that he
  always intended to leave Jamie something handsome at his death, on
  condition that he bore his name, and will condescend to say, if
  agreed to, that the annual rent in money, bondes, or stock shall
  exceed the rents of Murdiestone when the General's father changed
  his name from Hamilton to Inglis, by virtue of the testator's will.

  "The General wishes that Mr. Anderson will observe that this
  is every day done both in North and South Britain, and was the
  constant practice among the ancients. On these considerations, and
  seeing it will save a thousand pounds and enable him to assist
  Willie and John, which it is the General's purpose to do, he hopes
  that Mr. Anderson will cheerfully acquiss."

  "Murdiestone, 20th May, 1793."


The above letter bears the following most pathetic endorsement:--

                                "MEMOR.
                        "J. A.--15th May, 1793.
                         "A cornet 2 Dragoons.

  "July 11th, '93. Parted with son James half past five o'clock
  night, at Lark-hall. He was then aged 16 years and seven days. I
  walked to Hamilton that night with a heart full of grief."

The following letter, addressed:--

  "Mr. +H. McLachlane+, Writer, Glasgow.
                  "Edʳ., 53, York Place,
                              "10 July, 1815.

  "+Sir+,--I recd. your letter of the 7th inst. and with reference
  to a letter I wrote Mr. Une not knowing the address of my lamented
  friend Col. Hamilton's sister, I beg leave to inform you that with
  deep regret I have ascertained the intelligence of the Col.'s
  death to be correct. His bravery was most gallant throughout the
  18th, and he was killed giving a word of command. Several accounts
  agree that latterly in the action he was seen by his men _still_
  commanding with both arms shot off, holding the reins of his
  charger in his teeth. This must have been momentary desperation.
  I saw a letter from an officer in the Greys (Gen. Hamilton of
  Dalziel's son) stating that it was ascertained that on examining
  Col. Hamilton's body previous to his burial on the field of battle
  he had received a shot through his heart, and Sir James Stewart
  showed me a letter from Col. Clark of the Greys mentioning that the
  Colonel's body had been found and had been buried."

       *       *       *       *       *

The letter is signed James Swan. In the margin Major +J. W. Hozier+ has
noted:--

  "Trotter, son of Mr. Trotter of Worton Hall, Edinburgh."

Inserted in this volume are the leaves from "Good Words" of September
1st, 1866, containing "Two Glasgow Stories," "By the Editor."

"1. +James Anderson.+

  "About ninety years ago the 21st, or North British Fusiliers, were
  engaged in the American war, and fighting at Ticonderoga.... The
  Fusiliers were then commanded by Colonel Inglis Hamilton, formerly
  of the Scots Greys, who inherited from a long line of ancestors the
  property of Murdiestoun, in the vicinity of Glasgow.

  "William Anderson, a Glasgow man of excellent character, was a
  private in the 21st, and rose to the rank of Sergeant-Major. He had
  born to him in America two sons, James and John, and two daughters.
  Having been wounded he was discharged with a pension, and with his
  family settled in the Gallowgate of Glasgow.... Colonel Hamilton,
  having attained the rank of Major-General, left the service, and
  with an old sister resided at his estate of Murdiestoun.

  "... One day the General driving in his carriage, saw to his
  surprise, Sergeant-Major Anderson playing with his children on
  the opposite side of the road, and no less to the surprise and
  delight of the old Sergeant, he saw his General, and felt the grasp
  of his affectionate hand. The children remembered the General,
  who delighted with the appearance of James, seized him in his
  arms and tossed him in the air, which so charmed the boy that he
  exclaimed,--Do it again, General; please give me another toss
  over your head. From that day the General's heart was knit to
  Jamie Anderson. He showed the greatest kindness to all the family,
  educating the boys in the grammar school, and afterwards at the
  University; while the girls received the best teaching which the
  boarding schools of Glasgow could then afford.

  "James moreover was taught riding, a pony was provided for his
  daily use; and Murdiestoun became his home almost as much as
  the more humble, but not less happy and contented abode in the
  Gallowgate. This kindness had a purpose in it. In carrying out this
  purpose, the General obtained a commission for 'Jamie' as a Cornet
  in the Scots Greys. The Secretary at War assumed the boy's name to
  be Inglis Hamilton....

  "Years passed. The Cornet behaved like an officer and a gentleman,
  and was the pride of the old General, who had the satisfaction of
  seeing him become Lieutenant-Colonel of his regiment, respected and
  beloved by officers and men. The General in the meantime made his
  will, leaving his property to James and his heirs male....

  "The General died, and according to a request written by him
  and placed in his prayer book, Jamie acted as chief mourner,
  accompanied by the nobility and gentry of the county."

From a small unbound volume belonging to the Regiment:--

Copies of letters written just previous to the battle of Waterloo, by
F. C. Kinchant, Cornet, 2nd Dragoons (Royal Scots Greys); also one
describing his death by treachery during the battle, and the summary
revenge taken therefor by the sergeant of his troop.

The originals are addressed to John Rose Hall, Esq., Cockshut Lydiate,
Ludlow, Shropshire, England. They are now in the possession of Mrs.
McLaughlin, step-daughter of the above-mentioned John Rose Hall.

                              "+Bristol+, _March 28th, 1815_.

  "+My Dear Hall+,

  "I fear you have again an opportunity of calling me an idle
  correspondent. I have certainly delayed writing to you much longer
  than I intended. In truth my time is totally occupied in drills,
  &c. three times a day, an hour and a half each. I rise every
  morning at six and attend at the Riding School till nine.

  "I have already made great progress in the equestrian art.

  "I and a brother Cornet (junior to myself) perform together.

  "The method of riding is altogether different to that of the
  country squires. At present we ride without stirrups, in order
  that we may obtain a firm seat. We must leap the bar, ditches and
  go through all the different evolutions of the field exercise, &c.
  without stirrups, indeed I find I can already ride better without
  their support than with it. So much for horsemanship.

  "The reason I have so much drilling is I much wish to go on service
  and share the honours my comrades are likely to reap.

  "We are in daily expectation of receiving orders to proceed to
  Flanders.

  "The Regiment is without doubt the best disciplined and the most
  crack cavalry corps in the service. I don't think there is a
  private in it under 5 feet 11 inches, and the officers are a fine
  gentlemanly set of fellows. There are only three Scotchmen among
  the officers, but the privates are in general Scotch.

  "The horses are all grey and in excellent condition.

  "Mine is two inches too low but the colonel has passed him for a
  second charger. He has desired I will get one much stronger and
  higher immediately as a first charger, but where I am to find a
  horse of that description I am at a loss to know.

  "It is the general opinion there will be more hard fighting and
  more bloodshed than in any preceding war, as that arch fellow Bony
  (who has been too deep for all our wise heads) will dispute every
  inch of ground with the sword.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Pray have you been to Easton lately? What does the old gent say of
  the present appearance of things?

  "If we go on service I shall be obliged to call on him for a
  further advance of cash, as I shall have to purchase many essential
  though expensive articles, such as tent and tent equipage, &c., and
  many other things necessary for service.

  "Our dress altogether is extremely rich and consequently costs lots
  of money. The Court dress coat alone is 40 guineas. It is covered
  with lace from head to foot. The jackets are handsome, but they
  only cost £15 15_s._ each. Every other part of the equipment is
  equally as expensive.

  "In fact we make a most dashing appearance. I should like much to
  meet the old Buck at Bath or Clifton. I do not think he would know
  his hopeful son....

  "Believe me my dear John your sincerely attached friend

                                                    "+F. C. Kinchant.+"

  "In great haste. Pray write soon and don't follow my example. Burn
  this scrawl when read!"

(Thus ends the first letter, and let us rejoice that it was not burnt.)

                               "+Bristol+, _April 6th, 1815_.

  "+My Dear John+,

  "I have only time to tell you that we received orders yesterday to
  hold ourselves in perfect readiness for foreign service.

  "To-day another order arrived for the regiment to proceed to North
  Fleet (about 30 miles below London) and there embark for the
  Continent. It will be about seven days' march from hence to North
  Fleet. The order and march came so near together that most of us
  are unprovided with tents, camp equipage, canteens, &c., all
  which necessaries I must order from London to meet me by the time
  I arrive at North Fleet. We have been long expecting this move.
  Since I joined I have not had a spare half hour. Three drills a
  day on horseback and on foot I assure you did not a little fatigue
  my bones. However, I trust I am now a tolerable good match for a
  Frenchman.

  "The Regiment is in the finest condition and in the highest spirits
  and most anxious for an opportunity to distinguish itself.

                                                      "Believe me, &c.,
                                                     "+F. C. Kinchant+.

  "We shall have seven days' march--the first day from hence to
  Chippenham,

                      the next Marlbro',
                          "    Newbury,
                          "    Reading,
                          "    Staines,
                          "    Camberwell,
                          "    Gravesend.
  "In greatest haste."


       *       *       *       *       *

                                "+Ghent+, _April 23rd, 1815_.

  "+My Dear John+,

  "I have taken the earliest opportunity to inform you of my arrival
  as far as this place. I should have written sooner, but my time
  has been most fully engaged since we landed. We are quartered for
  a day or two in a village contiguous to this town, are in hourly
  expectation of receiving orders to proceed to the frontiers to join
  the army under the Duke of Wellington. There are an immense number
  of troops daily arriving, and the united forces of the Allies, will
  it is stated, in a short time amount to 900,000 men.

  "We are here quite ignorant of the politics of the country. Nothing
  is said of Buonaparte, but he has doubtless many adherents in
  Flanders. Deserters from his army are constantly coming into Ghent.
  They state that they receive neither their rations nor pay. Some of
  the inhabitants seem well inclined towards the English and are what
  may be termed hospitable, but adieu to English comforts.

  "We embarked at Gravesend on the 15th, sailed on the 16th, and
  reached Ostend on the 19th. We had a rough passage the last day and
  night--the wind blowing hard right in our teeth, with snow storms.
  Many of the horses were a good deal bruised, but none sustained any
  material injury. We expect some hard fighting before the business
  will be settled. Never was a Regiment in better condition for
  service than this, both in men and appointments.

  "Louis the Eighteenth is here. He keeps himself closely shut up,
  and is at present in an ill state of health.

            "I am, my dear John, your ever attached friend,
                                                    "+F. C. Kinchant+."


       *       *       *       *       *

                             "+Denderhanten, near Gramont+,
                                                  "_May 21st, --15._

  "+My Dear John+,

  "Week after week has passed without my having the gratification of
  hailing your long expected, most welcome letter. I assure you I
  am most anxious to hear from you, having as yet received only one
  letter from old England....

  "My father has not yet replied to the letters I sent him from
  Bristol, but my sister says he intends advancing the money I
  applied for. I shall therefore write to him very soon on the
  subject as my last bills are unpaid in London for camp equipage,
  &c., and the tradesmen are continually dunning for their accounts
  to be settled. Exchange between this country and England is
  extremely low, only 17⅓ francs for a Bank of England £1. I shall
  therefore have as little money as possible sent here. We, however,
  do not expect to receive any pay for four months. The Regiment has
  been here about a fortnight. It is a miserable small village, not
  large enough to contain one troop. The remainder, officers and
  men, are quartered at cottages in the neighbourhood. A pig-sty in
  England is a palace to my quarters. Hosts of lice, bugs, fleas, and
  filth of every description, abound in a most extraordinary degree
  in all the habitations of these dirty vagabonds. To counteract,
  however, as much as possible, the unpleasant effects of sleeping
  in such a dirty hut, I have pitched my tent and sleep quite
  comfortably _su Dio_, in a green field totally independent of the
  above-mentioned black backed gentry.

  "The men and women are very plain, with mouths that reach from ear
  to ear, and are extremely ignorant. It is with great difficulty I
  can make them understand my wants as few can speak French, nothing
  but the Flemish is spoken among the lower classes. The only answer
  I can ever obtain is "yaw," in English, "yes."

  "To-morrow we are again reviewed, for the fourth time since we
  landed, by the Earl of Uxbridge, who commands the English cavalry,
  and on Wednesday this regiment will be inspected by the Prince of
  Orange and a Prussian General. I assure you we are considered the
  finest cavalry corps on the continent. Every one wishes to see us,
  and all the Generals that have reviewed us, speak in the highest
  possible terms of the excellent appearance and condition of the men
  and horses. A Prussian General expressed a wish to see an English
  Dragoon Regiment, the Greys were immediately brought forward as a
  specimen. In fact we have every compliment paid us.

  "A few years ago the Regiment behaved most gallantly in this
  country in several actions and I think it is probable they will
  distinguish themselves in this campaign, for I never saw men more
  anxious for an opportunity. You may perhaps think I speak with
  partiality, but I assure you what I have expressed is the real
  matter of fact. We are within about 35 miles of the French army--a
  day's march.

  "The English army will not advance till the Russians, Cossacks,
  &c., come up. There are a great number of Prussian, Hanoverian and
  Belgic troops in this neighbourhood.

  "I am sorry to hear old Blucher has been insulted by some Saxon
  troops. He is a gallant old cock.

  "Whatever the newspapers say of the increasing popularity of the
  Bourbons, you have no idea how much Bonaparte is adored by the
  lower order. There is scarce a house here from which there is
  not one or two young men now serving in the French army, and the
  deserters are by no means so numerous as the papers would persuade
  us.

  "The French are collecting a very large force on the frontiers. At
  Lisle they have near 40,000 men, at Valenciennes and other places
  they are also very strong. It is the unanimous opinion of the army
  that we shall have some very hard fighting before we reach Paris.
  Much will depend on the first battle. It is generally supposed we
  shall advance in the course of a week and that hostilities will
  commence immediately.

  "I trust the next time I write to you we shall be on the road to
  the French Capital.

  "I am sorry to say the horse I bought in London has turned out very
  bad. I shall be obliged to send to England for another. The grey
  I took from Easton is a very promising horse, but is rather too
  slight for my weight.

  "I must now bid you adieu.

  "Give my kindest regards to all the family at Cockshut.

                                                    "+F. C. Kinchant.+"


       *       *       *       *       *

                                                  "_July 2nd, 1817._

  "+Dear Sir+,

  "In the course of a short excursion which I was obliged to make
  last week thro' the lower part of Lancashire, I met at the Rectory
  house, Middleton, with Dr. Hardie, a young Scotch physician of
  considerable eminence in his profession at Manchester, where he
  practises. The battle of Waterloo being accidentally mentioned,
  Dr. H. amused myself and the rest of the party after supper with
  various anecdotes of the gallantry and success of Sergeant Ewart
  of the Scots Greys, who performed prodigies of valour on that day
  and whose good fortune it was to be the captor of one of the three
  French Eagles that were taken during the battle.

  "To a remark made by one of the party that he supposed Ewart
  must be very proud of the honour of having taken a French Eagle,
  Dr. H. observed that he always seemed to speak of it with much
  indifference, and that when once asked the name of the regiment
  to which the Eagle belonged, he answered, with much sangfroid,
  'The Invincible or the like.' The only exploit, Dr. H. observed in
  continuance, of which Ewart appears to be proud, is the summary
  revenge which he had an opportunity of taking for the death of Mr.
  Kinchant, who was the cornet of his own troop.... On the morning
  of the 18th, a little before 12 o'clock, the Scots Greys were
  ordered to charge a body of French infantry at some distance,
  which order they instantly proceeded to execute in a column of two
  deep, Sergeant Ewart in this charge being the front man of Cornet
  Kinchant. Ewart, on reaching the enemy, immediately singled out
  a French officer, whom, from being a very expert swordsman, he
  soon disarmed and was on the point of cutting him down, when Mr.
  Kinchant, on hearing the officer crying out, 'Ah, mercy, mercy,
  Angleterre,' said, 'Sergeant, Sergeant, spare his life, and let
  us take him prisoner.' Ewart considering that moment as a period
  for slaughter and destruction, and not the proper time for taking
  prisoners, replied, 'As it is your wish, sir, it shall be done.'
  (I ought to have said that the French officer, prior to Mr. K.'s
  address to the Sergeant, had cried that he had surrendered and
  was their prisoner and had dropped his sabre.) Mr. K. to whom the
  French officer had delivered up his sword, addressed him in French
  and ordered him to move to the rear. Ewart was preparing to proceed
  in the charge when he heard the report of a pistol behind him, and
  turning round, from a suspicion of some treachery, the first object
  which met his eye was Mr. K. falling backwards over his horse,
  apparently in a lifeless state, and the French officer attempting
  to hide his pistol under his coat. Indignant at such a dastardly
  act, Ewart instantly wheeled round, and was again entreated by this
  villain for mercy in the same supplicating terms as before. The
  only answer which he returned was, 'Ask mercy of God, for the deil
  a bit will ye get at my hands,' and with one stroke of his sabre,
  severed his head from his body, leaving it a lifeless trunk on the
  field of battle."

[Illustration:

            +Charles Ewart+, Serjeant in the +SCOTS GREYS+.
               _CARRYING OFF THE_ =EAGLE= _BELONGING TO_
               +ONE OF THE MOST DISTINGUISHED DIVISIONS+
                                of the
                          +FRENCH INFANTRY+.
                                at the
                          BATTLE OF WATERLOO:
     _Which he captured in a CHARGE made by his REGIMENT about the
                        middle of the Action._

                     _From a Contemporary Print._]

[Illustration: +The Grave of Ewart, who captured the Eagle at
Waterloo.+]

From a small volume lettered outside:--

  "Extracts from a journal kept during the Waterloo campaign, by
  Lieutenant Archibald James Hamilton, of the 2nd or Royal North
  British Dragoons, presented to the Officers of the Royal Scots
  Greys by Major John G. C. Hamilton, M.P., of Dalzell, Lanarkshire,
  on the anniversary of the battle of Waterloo, 1881."

       *       *       *       *       *

  "This is a portion of the Journal of my father, Archibald James
  Hamilton, who was a Lieutenant in the Scots Greys during the
  Waterloo campaign."

       *       *       *       *       *

  "We were quartered in small villages between Brussels and Ghent,
  and chiefly in farm houses.

  "I went to bed in my farm house about twelve o'clock on the night
  of the 15th of June 1815, and was scarcely asleep when the trumpets
  sounded the turn out: in an instant we were out of bed, the clothes
  out of the washtub, and in a short time we were ready to march:
  long indeed before orders came to tell us to what point our march
  was to be directed. At length an order came which directed us to
  proceed to Ninove, where we should receive further orders. We
  were soon there: but the day was gone, and it was dark, and the
  firing had entirely ceased before we reached the army, having been
  repeatedly halted on the road during the day, from an apparent want
  of knowing where to go, and at a time too when the French Cavalry
  were charging our Infantry with considerable and unusual success.

  "We encamped in a clover field for the night. A few of us went to
  a village not far off, which had been completely plundered: we
  there met with some soldiers of the Highland Brigade, who gave us
  a most dismal account of the manner in which the French Cavalry
  had attacked them on the previous day. Never having before seen
  our army other than victorious, we felt rather dispirited at
  these accounts, and had not Buonaparte, with his characteristic
  selfishness, sent for the division which ought to have supported
  Ney, and which division never fired a shot during the day, there
  can be little doubt that the battle, instead of being a drawn one,
  must have turned out positive, and with the aid of his cavalry,
  of which we had none, Napoleon would have completely defeated the
  allied troops.

  "On this day Buonaparte kept his own opposed to our army,
  notwithstanding he neutralized one of his whole divisions, and he
  totally defeated the Russian army with a loss, according to their
  own accounts, of twenty-five thousand men, as their total loss as
  returned by themselves was upwards of thirty-three thousand: and
  they could not at Wavre and Waterloo have lost five thousand men.

  "The next morning we received orders to retire, and to cover the
  retreat of the army into the lines at Mont St. Jean. The infantry
  retired by the high road: the cavalry were formed in line: and the
  different brigades fronted alternately to prevent the advance of
  the enemy's cavalry and cannon.

  "Notwithstanding the torrents of rain which fell, the French
  continued to press us closely: their light cavalry charged ours
  on the road and drove them back: when Lord Uxbridge, seeing them
  do so, charged at the head of a regiment of the Life Guards and
  completely upset them, they being unable to stand against the
  superior weight of the men and horse of the household troops. At
  this moment it rained in such a way as I never saw either before
  or since: it rained as if the water were tumbled out of tubs:
  there was also a good deal of thunder with it. Some of the hussars
  that were driven in upon us were so covered with mud that it was
  impossible to distinguish their features. The ground was so soft
  that at every step our horses sank half way to the knees: and
  in several places, in our passing over fallow land, it had the
  appearance of a lake, the rain falling upon it faster than it
  could either be absorbed or run off. It continued to rain and we
  to retire till we halted for the night in the position of Mont St.
  Jean: we were placed in bivouac at the distance of three hundred
  yards from the front of a farm house which lay between us and the
  village of Waterloo. The firing of cannon continued till it was
  dark: but as it was on the other side of the hill we saw nothing
  of what passed, hearing merely the cannonade. It continued to rain
  and thunder during the whole of the night: being hungry and cold,
  and wet through to the skin, we passed a most wretched night: the
  ground upon which we lay was a fallow upon which it was impossible
  to lie: we therefore obtained some straw at the farm house: we
  found there also some wood with which we made a fire, although from
  the rain it was difficult to keep it burning....

  "In spite of the rain we slept pretty soundly, lying at our horses'
  heads, they being formed in line, and linked together, but we were
  repeatedly awoke during the night, by their taking fright at the
  lightning and thunder, at the same time advancing over us! but no
  one was hurt! and as the nights in the middle of summer are short,
  we arose with the day break: a miserable looking set of creatures
  we all were--covered with mud from head to foot--our white belts
  dyed with the red from our jackets, as if we had already completed
  the sanguinary work, which we were soon about to begin.

  "(Sir W. Ponsonby) the General who commanded the brigade, had also
  commanded our brigade in the Peninsula, and as I was the only
  subaltern in it whom he knew, he asked me to be with him on the
  17th and on this day also. This was just what I wished, for a man
  sees more, and suffers less in action when on the Staff, than with
  a regiment, being obliged in the latter case to stand still and be
  shot at, while in the former he is constantly on the alert carrying
  orders, and seeing and hearing everything that is going on.

  "When the General appeared on the ground I joined him, his
  Aide-de-Camp being at Brussels, whither the General had sent
  him, not expecting the action to begin so early if at all that
  day: his major of brigade and an officer who acted as _extra
  Aide-de-Camp_, were however with him.

  "We proceeded, after we had looked at the brigade, to the top of
  the hill, leaving the brigade drawn up close at the bottom of
  it. When we reached the summit we found the Duke of Richmond and
  one of his sons, as amateurs in plain clothes, with a number of
  officers, having their glasses on the look out for the Prussians:
  but we could see nothing of them, although we were on the extreme
  left of our army. Someone thought he saw a Prussian picquet at
  the foot of some trees near a wood, and for a time we were all of
  the same opinion--so fondly do people's hopes make things appear
  in the desired light: but there was no Prussian picquet, and
  the whole party seemed much dispirited. At this moment occurred
  a circumstance not mentioned by any writer whose account of
  the battle of Waterloo I have read: Buonaparte appeared in the
  front of his troops, and the loudest cheering began on the left
  of the French, and ran along their whole line. I confess that I
  never before felt so disheartened: it had evidently a powerful
  effect upon all present, but not one of our party said a word
  about it: nor was any attempt at a reply to it made on our side,
  by the troops near us: they were however chiefly Belgians, with
  the Highland Brigade, and some of the other regiments, which had
  suffered severely on the 16th.

  "At this time we did not know whether we were to fight that day or
  not: for having retired the whole of the day before, we thought as
  the Prussians were not to be seen, that we should again retreat,
  and seeing, or rather hearing by their shouts, that the French were
  in such spirits, ours were not enlivened by the circumstance, but
  the very reverse.

  "However, immediately afterwards the cannonade began on the right
  and increased every minute, till it was opposite to us, a gentle
  breeze wafting the smoke of the French guns towards us, which
  wholly prevented our seeing anything in front of us. Our brigade
  continued drawn up at the bottom of the hill, and I was sent to
  desire the commanding officers of the different regiments to draw
  them up as close to the hill as possible, as they began to suffer
  both from shells and shot, the effects of the cannonade....

  "The cannonade now greatly increased, and under cover of the
  smoke from both their cannon and our own, the French advanced the
  division the Count D'Erbon,[2] who had by this time got close
  to our infantry, who opened their fire upon them: but the enemy
  much more powerful in numbers continued to push on. Our general
  observing what was about to take place, immediately sent me down
  to bring up the brigade with all speed. I did so: the general met
  us just before we reached the summit of the hill: had we been five
  minutes later, it would have been too late to have effected what
  we did, as the French had charged our infantry with the bayonet,
  who fled through the intervals of our squadrons, but immediately
  rallying, advanced again with us to the hedge, a little way down
  the hill, where they fired a volley at the French, when they were
  close to each other. Our three regiments of dragoons were not quite
  in line: the ---- Dragoons were on the right, and some yards in
  advance, so that the general placing himself in front of them, they
  charged a little before the other regiments did: the French gave
  us only a partial volley, being in some disorder in consequence of
  their previous exertions against our infantry, and from having no
  idea of our brigade being so near at hand. We accordingly _went
  right through them_: not a horse, as is usually the case, went
  round from the fire, and the enemy threw down their arms.

  [2] I make no attempt to alter the wording.--E. A.

  "The other two regiments came up in succession, but were a little
  delayed by the hedge: we again charged--the general riding along
  the whole line to the left of the brigade--so that we saw the
  whole three regiments charge: the result in each instance the
  same--namely--the enemy throwing down their arms, and begging their
  lives.

  "In this conflict two eagles were taken, one by the ---- Dragoons,
  and the other by ---- Dragoons.

  "After passing through and killing, wounding, and making prisoners
  the whole of the advanced column of the French, we ought to have
  stopped and re-formed the brigade: but our men were not contented
  with what they had done: they still went on. The General, his
  aide-de-camp and I, got however about thirty of them collected
  together, in the hope of reassembling all who remained of those
  who had come on: for a great many, particularly of the officers,
  had remained with the prisoners: when Colonel of the ---- Dragoons
  came past us at full gallop, with about twenty men of his regiment
  following him: in a second all the men which we had collected
  set off in the same direction. In the hopes of stopping them we
  followed and passed between the columns of the French infantry,
  when their red lances closed behind us. One of the red lancers put
  his lance to my horse's head, I made a cut at his arm as I passed
  him; and as I did not look behind me to see whether I had struck
  him or his lance, I should not have known that I had cut his arm,
  had I not in recovering my sword thrown the blood on my white pouch
  belt.

  "On inspecting the sword, I saw that I had succeeded in wounding
  the lancer and possibly thus saved my own life. My fears were, when
  I saw him thrust at my horse's reins that he would shoot me with
  his pistol, having heard of the red lancers sometimes doing so.

[Illustration: "+Muster Role of the Waterloo Men 2ⁿᵈ (or R.N.B.)
Regiment of Dragoons.+"

"Rouen 11th Sepʳ 1815."]

[Illustration: "+Muster Role of the Waterloo Men 2ⁿᵈ (or R.N.B.)
Regiment of Dragoons.+"

"Rouen 11th Sepʳ 1815."]

  "Upon getting quite clear of the French, the first person I saw was
  Captain ---- our General's extra aide-de-camp, who had lost sight
  of the General some minutes before I had, and a little way before
  us was Captain ---- of my regiment who had been with me in
  the ---- Dragoons in Spain. He returned to his regiment to collect
  his troops: and the aide-de-camp and I sought for assistance with
  the view of recovering the General, and such other of our officers
  and men who were in the hands of the French. I went to Lord E. R.
  S. who commanded the Life Guard Brigade, and found him alone with
  the exception of Lieutenant M. and Colonel Harvey of the 14th.

  "Lord E. R. S. said to me, 'You see Mr. ---- I can do nothing for
  you.' Upon this I went to a regiment that afterward ran off the
  field altogether, and asked the Colonel in French, to advance,
  and that I would show him where our General was prisoner; but he
  declined moving, saying he had no orders; and he was right, as it
  would have been in vain to make the attempt.

  "A little further to the left, I found Sir J. Vandeleur's brigade
  in column of divisions and an old brother officer of mine in the
  ---- Dragoons, was riding in front of the General giving him
  advice. 'No orders' was again the reply to my request. I then
  joined my regiment.

  "After being once more in the form of a regiment, we retired
  to a situation behind a wood where the enemy's shot and shells
  passed over us: here the regiment, about three hundred strong, was
  re-formed under the command of Colonel ----; we were then marched
  up to the slaughter afresh, and placed nearly in the centre of the
  enemy. On our right was the first brigade of cavalry, about the
  same in number as ourselves. On each side of us were some regiments
  of infantry formed in squares--some Hanoverian, some British.

  "Repeatedly during the evening we retired, either by orders given,
  or voluntarily after the charges were made. But whenever we were
  out of the fire of the enemy we faced about and resumed our former
  position.

  "The infantry squares did the same, but were also brought back
  to their positions; and I observed the officers in some of the
  Hanoverian regiments exerting themselves to the utmost to keep
  their men in order. We were twice led on by the Earl of Uxbridge,
  and charged the squares of the French infantry opposed to us, but
  were as often repulsed, losing about half our number every time.

  "The first time we charged, the first brigade of cavalry on our
  right charged at the same moment, and having received the fire of
  their square of infantry before we did ours, they wheeled about and
  charged as we advanced: so great was the confusion that the General
  commanding them rode up against me, I being on the left of our
  brigade, and he in the centre of his.

  "I said 'Bad work this.' He shook his head, which I construed into
  'It's all over with us.' Just as this occurred, the French square
  opposite to us fired, and a great many of both brigades fell. This
  reminded me of an old Scotch poacher who always waited till two
  partridges 'clipt' before he fired, by clipt he meant, came so near
  that their wings touched each other.

  "At the conclusion of the last of these charges the Earl of
  Uxbridge was shot in the leg; we saw him lifted off his horse
  and carried off the field by six men, Captain H. Seymour walking
  at their head. At this time the action was evidently all against
  us, the enemy's infantry were steady in their squares; but their
  heavy cavalry was as much reduced in number as our own: they
  however sent out their skirmishers, who rode close up to us and
  fired their pistols in our men's faces, who at last got in some
  degree unmanageable, and fired their carbines in return over their
  horses' heads at the French, and it was with some difficulty that
  we prevailed upon them to put up their carbines. At this moment
  one of our men was shot dead. We retired about twenty yards, the
  dead man at the same time being left sitting on his tired horse,
  quite upright, yet completely dead. Fearing that such a spectacle
  might have a bad effect upon the men, he was taken off his horse
  and carried to the rear; but I shall never forget his singular and
  horrible appearance while he remained in the position in which he
  was killed.

  "During the evening we repeatedly retired to the bottom of the
  hill, and as we supposed out of the reach of the fire of the enemy:
  but even here, towards the close of the battle, we had men killed
  and wounded: a pretty strong proof that the enemy had gained the
  summit of the hill, and therefore crowned our position! Why they
  did not advance further I cannot say; but it may be presumed that
  they were without any further order, and that probably their
  superior officers were killed or wounded, and the other officers
  that they had fulfilled their orders having gained the top of our
  position.

  "As it got dusk we could plainly perceive the flashes of the
  Prussian guns in the rear of the French army as we looked over it
  towards the left. This may give a tolerably good idea of the time
  at which the French retired: it was eight o'clock, and the victory
  to all appearance was then quite undecided.

  "During nine hours we had been exposed to a fire, which had, by
  this time, reduced our brigade from about fifteen hundred strong in
  the morning to a mere skeleton of _thirty-three officers and men_,
  the number we mustered when we encamped for the night!

  "It was after nine o'clock at night when the French gave way,
  and our whole line advanced: we, as well as the first brigade of
  cavalry, were now such mere handfuls, that, of course, we could
  do nothing, but followed slowly in the rear of others. We heard
  firing, but it was too dark to see anything clearly: we heard also
  huzzas as the different charges were made by our light cavalry upon
  the retreating enemy. We continued to advance along the right of
  the road by which the French retired, and passed by many cannon and
  waggons which they had abandoned, when I heard some English voices
  calling out 'Are these the Dragoons?' Upon which I answered 'Yes.'
  'Then' continued the voice 'here is Captain ---- of the Dragoons
  badly wounded,' upon which I immediately sent one of the men of his
  regiment, and one of the men of my own, with him to Brussels. I
  heard nothing more of him for four years, further than that he had
  got quite well, till going to visit some of my relations at * * *
  in the east of Scotland, I found him quietly settled there, and in
  the belief that his life had been saved by a French officer.

  "When we halted for the night I was sent with a Cornet of the
  regiment to the village of Waterloo to collect the stragglers, and
  bring them up the next day. On my way to Brussels I overtook on the
  road Captain P---- of the horse artillery, and rode with him into
  the town. He was so kind as to inform a cousin of mine in the same
  corps that I was safe; and thus my friends heard through him, that
  I was neither killed nor wounded.

  "Upon entering into a large house at Waterloo we found every room
  in it filled with either the dead or the dying. I was glad to get
  a chair, and sat down at a table in a large room, in every corner
  of which were poor creatures groaning. The master of the house
  having brought us a piece of bread and a bottle of wine, we began
  to talk over the events of the day: and as he had been for years
  a soldier of Buonaparte's himself, we found no lack of subjects
  for conversation. After we had finished our bread and wine, which
  we enjoyed very much notwithstanding the room was full of poor
  wounded human beings, we retired to a hay loft for the night, which
  we passed in profound repose. In the morning we saw the Belgians
  completing the plunder of a number of baggage waggons, which stood
  in the yard of the house. Here some of our men joined us, and my
  private servant came up from the rear to look for my body, he
  having been informed by two different officers of the brigade whom
  he met on their way to Brussels the evening before, that I was
  killed, assuring him that they had seen me lying on the field of
  battle before they left it.

  "I saw on my left, during one of the many times that we were in
  some confusion, a soldier of the ---- Dragoons whose cheek, just
  as I looked at it, opened, while I felt a ball pass close to my
  lips,--the man immediately fell off his horse and I saw no more of
  him.

  "Several years afterwards I inquired of the Surgeon of his
  regiment, and found that he had recovered with the loss of his
  teeth on both sides, but that no injury was done either to the
  upper or lower jaw, the ball having passed between them. The man's
  name was Pye, the son of an English clergyman, who had left his
  home and enlisted as a dragoon--he was probably a relation of
  Southey's predecessor, the poet laureate of that name. After I had
  got as many of our men ready to march as were in the village of
  Waterloo, we were just setting off when we were joined by a party
  from Brussels under the command of a senior officer to me, who
  had gone there to dinner the day before we proceeded to join the
  regiment, taking the field of battle on our way, where we found the
  dead officers of the regiment and buried them, and then proceeded
  on. But we did not come up with the regiment till the day after
  when we found it encamped for the night, and my troop without an
  officer."

Copy of a letter from A. J. Hamilton, Esq., of Dalziell House,
Lanarkshire, N.B., a Subaltern in the Scots Greys at the Battle of
Waterloo, giving an account of the battle. John W. Hozier, Major,
Royal Scots Greys, has recorded:--N.B.--The above has been copied from
a letter in the possession of John Hamilton, Esq. of Dalziell House,
Lanarkshire, N.B., whose Father was the writer of the original letter.

                                         "+Camp, near Mons+,
                                                 "_June 24th, 1815_.

  "+Dear Captain+,

  "Till this day, I have had no time to write to you. You must have
  received e'er this the accounts of what happened on the 18th,
  the slaughter of both armies has been terrible; we have lost
  three-fourths of our officers in killed and wounded, 200 men, and
  nearly 800 horses, which was a pretty day's work. The Grays took
  an Eagle, and the Royals another. I was Orderly Officer to General
  Ponsonby, and was with him till he fell, the aide-de-camp and I
  then cut our way through the enemy who had got into our rear.

  "The first thing we did in the morning was to charge a column of
  French infantry who had forced the left centre of our position,
  supported by the Cuirassiers and some of the Imperial Guard; they
  had just driven the Belgians from the heights and got possession
  of six guns, when Ponsonby led on the Brigade in line; they
  immediately halted, fired a volley which dropped a few of us, not a
  man or horse went about, and in a minute we were in the middle of
  them; those to the rear of the column still continued to fire at
  us. After killing I can't tell what number, we made all the rest
  prisoners, about 3,000, which were immediately sent to the rear.
  Nothing could stop the men; they went on, took a great many of the
  enemy's guns, and then, instead of halting, charged the Lancers and
  Cuirassiers. At this moment I lost sight of the General, who was
  killed, and cut my way to the rear, we being completely overpowered
  by a fresh column of Infantry firing upon us and by the Cuirassiers
  and Lancers having by this time rallied. We then retired and three
  squadrons were formed, nine in the Brigade. We were then led to
  the centre of the Army, where the battle became dreadful. We then
  charged a square of Infantry on our left, and the Life Guards on
  our right; between the two were formed the French Cuirassiers, and
  each flank of our two Brigades rested on a square of Hanoverian
  Infantry. At this moment everyone thought the battle lost, when we
  charged and the Life Guards and one half of our men were destroyed.
  We threw the French into some confusion. The two Brigades, the Life
  Guards and ourselves, were then formed into one squadron of about
  50 file, and we again charged the Cuirassiers in front of us; after
  which we stood, and the French did the same, and fired at each
  other with our carbines, not being more than forty yards from each
  other, both afraid to advance for fear of the Infantry giving way.
  The French then brought up their guns close to us, and our guns
  came up also and fired grape shot, the French throwing something
  like broken glass amongst us, at least it seemed so, which made
  some dreadful wounds. The Prussians fired the right of the French
  and they gave way; all our light cavalry then charged, and we
  pursued them as long as we could see them.

[Illustration: "+Signatures of Officers Present of the 2nd (or R.N.B.)
Regiment of Dragoons entitled to share of Prize Money granted for the
Waterloo Campaign.+"

"Canterbury 29 May 1817."]

  "At the end of the night I was sent to collect what men I could
  that had gone off with the wounded, and all that were left with the
  regiment was 16 officers and men.

  "I buried 8 officers the next day. Trotter was the first, he was
  shot through the heart; I have written to his brother-in-law, and
  said I would pay his bills and remit home the money that arose
  from his things being sold. I have bought Colonel Hamilton's
  horse, which is a very fine one, 5 years old and fit to carry 15
  stone, for £55; he refused £100 for him often. When the bills for
  Trotter's things are given, I shall send them either to you or the
  agent. I lost some of my things, many officers their whole baggage.
  The Belgian cavalry ran off to Brussels, saying the Army was
  defeated, and took our baggage from the men by force; such a scene
  never was witnessed; the road at last got blocked with waggons,
  and the Brunswick Hussars and the Belgians seized upon everything.
  Let me hear from you as soon as possible. Write to my father when
  you get this and say I am well. I shall write you next from Paris,
  which is only 100 miles off, and with love to the children,

                                      "Believe me,
                                             "Yours truly,
                                                "+A. J. Hamilton+.
  "To Captain Lawson."


Letter from Cornet Clape (age 16), Scots Greys, to his Mother a week
after the Battle of Waterloo.

  "+My dear Mother+,

  "I am afraid my long silence may have occasioned you some
  uneasiness, particularly as the list of killed and wounded was so
  long making its appearance. I would have written the day after the
  battle, but where could I find pen and ink, in the middle of a
  cornfield that was occupied the night before by the enemy.

  "I have certainly delayed writing to you this week, as I wanted to
  date my letter from Paris, which we have been expecting to enter
  every day. As you must now be certain that I have escaped without
  a broken head, and, as to my health, I could not enjoy better, you
  may perhaps wish for the history of our proceedings since we left
  Dunderhauten.

  "On the morning of the 15th we were roused from a most comfortable
  sleep by the sound of Bugles, and noise of Sergeants crying 'Turn
  out,' 'Turn out!' We understood that the enemy had          in some
  fear of our pickets, and that we were to march about 15 miles,
  which we did, when we were ordered to move on with all possible
  speed to the field of action. We could hear the firing distinctly.
  We got to Ne----lles about nine at night. The firing had almost
  ceased, they were bringing in the wounded by hundreds. We arrived
  on the field of Battle at 12 o'clock, where we bivouacked, after
  having marched upwards of 50 miles. I rolled my cloak round me,
  and laid down in some rye, where I slept as sound as ever I did in
  my life. On the morning of the 17th the firing commenced early,
  chiefly skirmishing. We could not see much of it, as we were
  covered by some rising ground. About 12 the Cavalry and Artillery
  took up positions upon the heights, to cover the retreat of the
  Infantry. We commenced our march in their rear about 4 o'clock,
  going through Jenappes: the rain fell in torrents. We soon after
  moved into the cornfields, where we what they called shewed a
  front, retiring, then fronting again. It was here that I first
  heard the whizzing of a Ball (there is really something very grand
  about it). They were coming pretty fast and very near us: however
  we had not a man killed, or wounded. At 7 we halted. The firing
  had ceased. We had touched nothing since we left Dunderhau--but a
  little bread and some         . Luckily we were near a very large
  farm house, that supplied us with wood and straw. Such a scene of
  destruction I never before witnessed. Ploughs, Harrows, Chairs,
  Tables, everything that would burn was brought out to make fires.
  The straw was unthrashed. Old sows, little pigs, calves and cows,
  all shared the same fate. I got a calves kidney, and although it
  was not dressed in style (for one half of it was raw) I made a very
  dainty meal of it.

  "Oh: the night: what could be more uncomfortable. It began raining
  again at 10, and we had nothing but our cloaks to cover us, which
  were soaked in half an hour. On the morning of the 18th, the clouds
  began to break, the sun made his appearance, and with good fires
  we soon got dry. At 10 the firing commenced, we then moved to the
  bottom of the Hill, where Colonel Hankins (?) Horse came down with
  him crossing a ditch: he was severely hurt: we were just in the
  range of the 12 Pounders. We were ordered up the Hill, and after 3
  hours, charged the enemy in the finest style possible. The men were
  only too impetuous, nothing could stop them, they all separated,
  each man fought by himself. I received a bullet from a Frenchman
  not 20 yards from me: it went through my cloak, and lodged in my
  saddle, which it has completely spoiled. I was the last person with
  Colonel Hamilton, who was just like a madman. He was crying 'Halt,
  Halt, the Greys,' when there was none to be seen. He then galloped
  completely into the French Lines, where I thought it time to leave
  him; and make the best of my way back, which by the greatest good
  fortune I effected. If we had been supported by the Light Dragoons,
  we should have lost very few, and done three times the execution.
  After we had collected all we could of the two Brigades, we retired
  behind a wood, where we remained till 4 o'clock in the afternoon,
  when we were ordered to the right. Talk of the charge, I say it
  was a farce to this; this tried a soldier: we were formed upon a
  hill facing the enemy, receiving his whole force of Artillery and
  Musketry, without being able to return a shot. Really the Bullets
  came as thick as Hail, the men were dropping on all sides, here we
  were until half-past seven, diminishing every moment. We seemed
  to be placed there only to be shot at, and the enemy threatening
  to charge us every instant with 6 times our number. We thought
  all was lost, yet all resolved to stand to the last. How can I
  express, my dear Mother, what we felt at seeing the Light Dragoons
  and Artillery come up, and in an instant saw the whole French Army
  in a rout. I must leave it to your own imagination. Our Regiment
  was only 36 strong when we marched to this Mount, when we left it
  we could only muster 14. Colonel Clarke had two horses shot under
  him, and was wounded himself. Major Vernon was wounded. Major
  Cheney had five horses shot under him, and kept mounting the fresh
  ones with the same coolness that he would had they been at his own
  stable door. My old mare received three slight wounds. One was a
  bullet through her ear. Poor Whindham was shot through the foot in
  the charge, he is doing well. What a scene did the field of action
  present to our view. The wounded groaning, the dead cut up in a
  most hideous manner. Horses standing upon three legs, you could not
  go a step without stumbling over something. We that night occupied
  the very ground that the enemy had bivouacked upon the previous
  night, and much obliged to them we were for the huts they had left
  us. Since that time we have been taking forced marches, and are now
  quartered at N----, six miles from Paris. Sergeant Ewart of the
  Greys took the Eagle."

Letter from the Adjutant of the Scots Greys at the Battle of Waterloo,
Lieutenant Macmillan, to Major-General Balfour of Ballurnie, Fife,
late Colonel of the Scots Greys, and giving an account of the part the
Regiment took in the battle. Copied by Major Donnithorne from the
original in the possession of Mr. Balfour of Ballurnie, son of General
Balfour.

                              "+Nantevin.+ _July 13th, 1815._
                                "5 miles west of Paris.

  "+Dear General+,

  "After a long silence on my part I shall attempt to give you a
  short extract of our late movements. No doubt ere this time you
  will have seen the _Gazette_ containing a list of the killed and
  wounded of the Greys on the 18th ultimo. I fancy it's much greater
  than has ever occurred since it was a regiment. We took into the
  field that day three squadrons above sixty files each. Now we
  muster _one_ of little more than that number. I fear many of the
  men and horses wounded, will never be again fit for service. Poor
  Colonel Hamilton led the regiment in grand stile into action. You
  know him, more than courage is required on such occasions.

  "Major-General Ponsonby who commanded the Brigade fell early in the
  action, as did Colonel H.; but which of them fell first, the former
  being in the centre of the Brigade, and we being on the left, I do
  not know which of them was first killed.

  "No regiment could behave better than the Greys, Sergeant Ewart
  took an Eagle, and the Royals another, which I believe were all
  that were taken, but not one word in the Despatch by whom taken,
  indeed the Despatch is extremely cold, and which is observed as
  such by everyone here, that has seen it. The Heavy Brigade are
  mentioned as having done their duty--the first consists of 2
  Regiments, Life Guards, Blues, and first Dragoon Guards. The 2nd,
  second and sixth Dragoons: the Hussars and Light Dragoons had
  little or anything (_sic_) to do except look on. Sergeant Ewart cut
  down the officer and two soldiers before he could get possession of
  the Eagle.

  "Hankin's horse fell with him at the commencement of the charge, we
  saw nothing more of him for that day, had he remained a short time
  in the field he must have been killed from his been (_sic_) so very
  inactive that the French Lancers immediately got into our regt.
  after each charge, he having no reserve he would certainly have
  been destroyed, the Light Dragoons this time might have been made
  extremely useful.

  "Colonel Hankin's horse also fell with him twice on the 17th, when
  we in our turn covered the retreat of the British Army, which was
  done under a most tremendous fire of cannon from the enemy, the
  First Dragoons only lost one man, that was all, Lord Uxbridge's
  Hussars[3] (the 7th) were to have been the last and were so placed,
  but from some cause or other, behaved not very well, indeed his
  Lordship said in front of the first Life Guards, that he must call
  upon them to advance _for that his own regiment had deserted him_.
  The Life Guards charged a mass of Lancers on the _chasee_ (_sic_),
  and which they tumbled over like rats and the road covered with
  them and their horses.

  [3] This Regiment no longer exists.--E. A.

  "It is quite impossible to describe in a letter the battle of the
  18th. The carnage is far beyond belief.

  "The enemy fought most fureyously, indeed they fought with halters
  round their necks as well as their Master. The heavy Cavalry was
  the admiration of the whole army, they bore down everything that
  came in their way.

  "I am pretty certain that had it not been for their exertions on
  that day, we should not now have had possession of the French
  Capital, with the aid of part of the Prussians at the close of
  the day, and which came very seasonably, not only to complete a
  hard day's work, but to follow a routed enemy which they did to
  perfection. I went over a part of the field of Battle next morning
  where we had principly been engaged, with the view of getting
  removed such of the wounded of the Greys as remained, and also to
  bury the officers, the former had all been removed, and the latter
  I saw put under ground as well as we could. Poor Carruthers died
  next day of his wounds. The men wounded say that they received
  their wounds after they were taken prisoners, this from their
  horses being killed, from which it would appear that the French
  expected no quarter was to be given on either side: the field is
  far beyond my power to describe, it was literally covered with men
  and horses, &c., &c.

  "I beg you will excuse this horrid scrawl as I find that I am not
  competent to give even a faint description of this bloody battle.

  "Clark had a horse killed under him and himself wounded. Poole
  had a horse killed and himself for some time a prisoner. Verner a
  horse shot through the head and himself through the shoulder and
  apparently by the same ball. Wemyss a horse shot. Cheney had five
  horses (only one his own, and the rest troopers), his own died next
  day. My horse shot through the shoulder and my cloak like a ridle
  from musket balls. Indeed only two officers escaped without being
  touched either themselves or horse.

  "As Colonel Clark is now likely to succeed to the command of the
  Regiment."

       *       *       *       *       *

                       "+Interesting Anecdote.+

  "Sergeant Weir, of the Scots Greys, was pay-sergeant of his troop,
  and as such might have been excused serving in action, and perhaps
  he should not have been forward, but on such a day as Waterloo he
  requested to be allowed to charge with the Regiment. In one of
  the charges he fell mortally wounded, and was left on the field.
  Corporal Scot, of the same regiment (who lost a leg) asserts that
  when the field was searched for the wounded and slain, the body of
  Sergeant Weir was found with his name written on his forehead by
  his own hand dipped in his own blood. This his comrade said he was
  supposed to have done that his body might be found and known, and
  that it might not be imagined he had disappeared with the money of
  the Troop."




CHAPTER V.


The Greys landed in England on January 12th, 1816, and on the 14th
joined the depot at Canterbury.

The establishment was soon ordered to be reduced to 544 all told.

In June, 1817, they marched from Canterbury to Scotland.

In July, 1818, they went to Ireland.

Returning to England, the Regiment landed at Bristol in May, 1821,
and marched to Birmingham and Coventry. In July, it went to London to
attend the coronation of King George IV. In August, the establishment
was further reduced to 6 troops.

In the summer of 1822 the Regiment marched to Scotland.

On August 15th, George IV. landed at Leith, where he was received by
the Regiment, and the Regiment had the honour of attending upon him
during his stay in Scotland. In July, 1823, the Regiment left Scotland,
and was at first stationed at Newcastle-on-Tyne and Carlisle. In the
summer of 1824, it was at Manchester and Nottingham; in May, 1825, at
Coventry, Birmingham, and Northampton. In June, it was quartered near
London--at Hammersmith and Turnham Green. On June 28th, the Greys,
together with other cavalry and a brigade of Horse Artillery, were
reviewed on Hounslow Heath by the Duke of York. The Greys now marched
to Norwich and Ipswich. Early in 1826 they went to Ireland. In May,
1830, they embarked at Cork for Bristol, and marched into quarters at
Dorchester, Weymouth, and Trowbridge; from whence they proceeded, in
November, to Windsor.

On November 9th, Queen Adelaide inspected two squadrons in the
riding-house at Pimlico. Before the end of November, the Regiment
marched to Maidstone.

In 1831, they were at Brighton, Chichester, and Warley. In 1832, in
Birmingham. In 1833, in York. In 1834, they marched to Edinburgh.
In 1835, they were quartered at Leeds. In May, 1836, they embarked
at Liverpool for Ireland. The rest of the movements of the Regiment
are, roughly: Brighton, 1841, Exeter, 1842 and 1843; Ipswich, 1844;
Edinburgh, 1845; Dundalk, 1846; Clonmel, 1847; Athlone, 1848 and 1849;
Longford, 1850; Canterbury, 1851; Dorchester, 1852; Birmingham, 1853;
Nottingham, 1854.

Now next, in regard to the Crimea, it would be absurd to try to adjust
or supplement the following records. They are of unique interest. The
Greys reached the Crimea on September 24th, 1854.

A folio volume, the property of the Regiment, lettered--

  "Historic Register, 2nd Dragoons," and inside, "from August 10th,
  1854":--

  "The average strength of the regiment during the period they have
  been in Turkey and the Crimea has been 223. They arrived in Turkey
  on August 10th, 1855, disembarking at Kulalie on the Adriatic side
  of the Bosphorus. Kulalie is about seven miles north of Scutari.
  There I joined the regiment from Varna on August 31st, having been
  transferred from the medical charge of the 93rd Highlanders to that
  of the Scots Greys on September 22nd.

  "The corps embarked on board the _Himalaya_ for the Crimea, and
  disembarked at the Katchu on September 24th, joining the allied
  army at the time it was executing its flank march on Balaclava.
  That night they bivouacked on the Belbee, and the following day
  came into collision with the enemy at the affair of Mackenzie's
  Farm, when they succeeded in capturing a quantity of baggage,
  ammunition, stores, &c.; also in capturing and destroying a
  portion of the rear guard of Prince Menchikoff's army, and without
  suffering the loss of a man on their part. The following day
  they were present at the capture of Balaclava, and bivouacked on
  the plains in front of that village. On October 25th they took
  a prominent part in the action in front of Balaclava, when the
  Russian army attempted to force that position, and they defeated
  and utterly routed a large body of the enemy's cavalry which had
  attacked and surrounded them in the proportion of three to one.
  After this 'feat of arms' they were led into the cross fires of the
  enemy's batteries, being ordered up to the support of the Light
  Cavalry Brigade their memorable but disastrous charge. On this
  occasion they sustained some severe injury, the wounds inflicted
  being nearly all of a serious nature caused by round shot, shell,
  grape and rifle balls.

  "The loss of the regiment in this action amounted to 2 men killed
  and 54 wounded, several of whom subsequently died of their wounds,
  and 4 officers wounded. The three first men who fell were mortally
  wounded by rifle balls in covering the retreat of the Turks from
  the redoubts....

[Illustration: +Hoof of a Charger of the Greys at Balaklava.+
(_Reduced_)]

  "Nothing of importance occurred from this period up to November
  5th, when the sanguinary battle of Inkerman took place.

  "The Greys were drawn up on the heights in reserve, and did not
  come into collision with the enemy.

  "The regiment remained on the heights before Sebastopol till the
  beginning of December, when owing to the inclemency of the weather,
  having sustained considerable losses both in men and horses, they
  were ordered down to the sheltered valley close to the village of
  Kadekai, where they passed the winter.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                  "+T. R. Brush, M.D.+"


I now put on record the following exceedingly pertinent passages from
Kinglake's "Invasion of the Crimea," Vol. V., p. 98, &c., 6th edition,
1877:--

  "All this while, the string of the 300 red coats were forming
  Scarlett's slender first line in the valley beneath, and they
  seemed to be playing parade. At the moment I speak of, the troop
  officers of the Greys were still facing their men; and their drill
  rules, it seems, had declared that they must continue to do so till
  the major of the regiment should at length bring them round by
  giving the order, Eyes right! Not yet would the Greys consent to be
  disturbed in their ceremonies by the descending column.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "A singular friendship had long subsisted between the Scots Greys
  and the Inniskilling Dragoons. It dated from the time of that
  famous brigade in which three cavalry regiments were so brought
  together as to express by their aggregate title the union of
  the three kingdoms, yet offer a sample of each (the 'Royals'
  represented England)....

  "The friendship between the Scottish and the Irish regiment had
  the ardour of personal friendship, and a tenacity not liable to be
  relaxed by mere death; for a regiment great in history bears so far
  a resemblance to the immortal gods as to be old in power and glory,
  yet have always the freshness of youth. Long intervals of years
  often passed in which the Greys and the Inniskillings remained
  parted by distance, but whenever it became known that by some new
  change of quarters the two regiments would once more be brought
  together there used to be great joy and preparation.... When last
  the sworn friends were together in what they might deign to call
  fighting they were under the field glass of the great Napoleon.

  "Then, as now, the Greys charged in the first line, and on the left
  of the Inniskillings.

  "Of the two comrade regiments each had its distinguishing
  characteristics. The Inniskillings, with still some remaining
  traces in their corps of the old warlike Orange enthusiasm, were
  eager, fiery, impetuous. The Scots Greys, with a great power of
  self-restraint, were yet liable to be wrought upon by their native
  inborn desire for a fight till it raged like a consuming passion.

  "From the exceeding tenacity of their nature, it resulted that
  the combative impulses, when long baffled by circumstances, were
  cumulative in their effect; and the events of that day--the capture
  of British guns under the eyes of our horsemen--the marching, the
  counter-marching, the marching again, without ever striking a blow,
  and finally, the dainty dressing of ranks under the eyes of the
  enemy's host--all these antecedent trials of patience had been
  heating and still heating the furnace by the very barriers which
  kept down the flame....

  "The Greys were led by Colonel Darby Griffith; and the two
  squadron leaders who followed him were Major Clarke on the right,
  and Captain Williams on the left. Handley, Hunter, Buchanan,
  and Sutherland were the four troop leaders of the regiment; the
  Adjutant was Lieutenant Miller; the serre-files were Boyd, Nugent,
  and Lenox Prendergast. And to these, though he did not then hold
  the Queen's Commission, I add the name of John Wilson, now a
  cornet, and the acting adjutant of the regiment, for he took a
  signal part in the fight."

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Illustrated London News_ of November 25th, 1854, has two large
illustrations, one a full page, called "The Action at Balaclava:
Charge of the Scots Greys, October 25th," and the other a double page
illustration, "The Battle of Balaclava: Attack of the Scots Greys." The
reference is to the following:--

                   "+The Attack of the Scots Greys.+

  "A soldier who was in the midst of the terrible conflict at
  Balaclava, and who escaped unhurt, gives the following account of
  what he felt and saw in that deadly struggle:--

  "'We charged. Oh, God! I cannot describe it; they were so superior
  in numbers; they "out-flanked" us, and we were in the middle of
  them. I never certainly felt less fear in my life than I did at
  that time; and I hope God will forgive me, for I felt more like a
  devil than a man. We fought our way out of them as only Englishmen
  can fight; and the 4th, 5th, and 6th were there up with us. I
  escaped without a scratch, thank God, though I was covered with
  blood; my horse was not even wounded. But oh! the work of slaughter
  that then began--'twas truly awful; but I suppose it was necessary.
  We cut them down like sheep, and they did not seem to have power to
  resist. The plain is covered and covered with dead Russians, and,
  of course, we left some of our poor comrades on the field. We only
  lost two and about seven wounded. Well, when we had finished this
  lot we thought of going home to breakfast; but no, they (the enemy)
  had some guns over the hills that Lord Raglan sent word were to
  be charged, and captured at any cost. So off we went again. They
  received us very quietly into their ground--Lord Lucan leading the
  Heavies, and Lord Cardigan the Light Brigade. The Light charged
  first this time, took the guns, cut down the gunners, and then,
  when they thought all was right, they were met by thousands of
  Cossacks, who had been in ambush. The Royals, the Greys, the 4th,
  5th, and 6th, now charged again. The butchering was repeated;
  when suddenly a cross front and rear fire opened upon us from the
  hills--cannon, rifles, and file firing.

[Illustration: +Portrait of Captain Toosey Williams+,

Who died in the Crimea 1854, and was buried at Scutari.]

  "'I cannot attempt to describe to you the scene that ensued--balls,
  shells, and rockets whizzing about our ears. The men on the right
  and left of me were both killed on the spot. We hacked our way out
  of it as well as we could, but were obliged to leave the guns.
  Colonel Yorke had his leg broken, and all the officers in the front
  rank were wounded. The Heavy Brigade have not lost many men; but,
  sad to tell, out of about 600 of the Light Brigade that went into
  the field, only 400 came out; but this is nothing to what the enemy
  suffered.'"




CHAPTER VI.


The following is here set up in type direct from the handwriting of a
retired officer of the Greys, giving his own Crimean recollections. He
is modest of his name appearing; and at first intended that I should
write my own account, after listening to his remarks; but I am glad to
say that I induced him to make his own record, and I have even ignored
his request that I would "edit" his writing.

  "War in Europe had ceased for 40 years, when in the reign of Queen
  Victoria peace was broken, and troops from the United Kingdom were
  being sent out to concentrate eventually in Turkey at the call of
  that Power in its resistance to Russian aggression.

  "The Greys were not included at first when the expedition started,
  though cavalry (Heavy and Light) supplied regiments for the force
  concentrated at Varna under Lord Raglan the commander-in-chief of
  the British Army allied to the French in the joint expedition.

  "The Greys were naturally disappointed at receiving no order to
  embark at first, but when it was decided by the Government that an
  invasion of the Crimea was to be undertaken in July, 1854, they
  received orders to start at once for Constantinople, where they
  were quartered in the cavalry barracks at Kulalie on the Bosphorus
  for several weeks during the time the flotilla was in preparation
  for crossing the Black Sea.

  "At last word came that it had embarked for the Crimea, and with it
  as far as cavalry was concerned only light cavalry regiments were
  included at that time.

  "Very shortly, however, the transport _Himalaya_, which had
  originally brought out the regiment from England, appeared in the
  Bosphorus; and immediately embarked the Regᵗ for service in the
  Crimea.

  "It so happened that as the _Himalaya_ was passing the Fortress of
  Sebastopol the Russians were engaged in sinking ships to block the
  harbour to our fleet; a momentous decision! as it proved.

  "A remarkable scene then presented itself. First came the British
  Fleet, then the French Fleet, covering the flank of the allied
  army in full march towards the fortress--the French regiments
  being nearest to the sea were sighted first, then the British more
  inland, the whole army (though the fact was yet unknown) flushed
  with victory of the Alma River which they left that morning behind.

  "The Greys in fact joined the army at the Alma River where they
  were met by Lord Burghersh, Lord Raglan's Aide-de-Camp, who gave
  the first intimation of the Battle and suggested the steamer should
  drop down to the next river, the Katcha, and there disembark at any
  rate a squadron if possible before dark, so that it might watch for
  a force expected from Eupatoria to attack the rear of the army.

  "This was done and the bulk of the Regᵗ disembarked the following
  morning.

  "At the next river, the Belbec, the Greys from being with the
  rearguard was moved right through the English and French armies,
  bivouacked near the great high road to Sebastopol so as to become
  the advanced guard of the whole army, for they were the freshest
  troops just arrived from England, and 'turned out' as if for a
  Horse Guards Parade!

  "It was a strange scene; as soon as the French caught sight of the
  bearskin caps they began to cheer lustily, and as the Regᵗ neared
  the Highlanders of the British army, hung on cheering and asking
  for news from home; the French meanwhile calling out 'Voila de la
  Cavalrie, voila des Grenadiers a cheval.'

  "What followed is worth mentioning in some little detail, since the
  Greys was the only Heavy Cavalry Regᵗ as yet landed in the Crimea,
  and a special job fell to their lot that day. The Regᵗ being the
  advanced guard of the Allied Forces moving straight to the North
  side of the fortress a singular and most important change of
  direction had to be made quite suddenly when the Russian outposts
  had been reached.

  "This movement is known as 'the flank march,' undertaken in
  consequence of the allied commanders' acceptance of a memorandum by
  Sir John Burgoyne, the distinguished officer of Engineers, pointing
  out that the South side of the fortress was practically undefended,
  and that if the Allied Forces could successfully move round, the
  North side might be left to itself.

  "Sir John Burgoyne's memorandum, dated the day after the battle
  of the Alma, is given in full in an instructive volume by Sir
  John Adye, entitled 'A Review of the Crimean War, published by
  Hurst & Blackett, 1860.' On arrival at the Belbec river the allied
  commanders adopted the plan proposed in the able memorandum alluded
  to.

  "In order to strike the main road which leads into the interior
  of the country down the Mackenzie heights towards Sebastopol
  and to the plains of Balaclava, the allies who, on the morning
  of the 25 September, were on the heights above the Belbec, had
  for some distance to march in a south-easterly direction through
  thick woods, in which there was only a slight track. On the same
  morning Prince Menschikoff, ignorant of the change, and doubtless
  conceiving that the plans of the allied generals were fully
  decided upon the attack on the _North_ side, was moving a force, a
  considerable force, by the same main road up the Mackenzie heights
  and into the country towards Bacskiverai, with the intention,
  probably, when his troops had somewhat regained their confidence,
  and when they had been joined by reinforcements, to return and
  attack the Anglo-French army in its rear.

  "Thus, on the 25th September the two hostile forces were
  unconsciously moving in two lines which intersected each other at
  a point close to the crest of the heights. Consequently, to the
  surprise of both, the advanced guard of the one suddenly found
  itself in the presence of the rearguard of the other. The Russian
  rearguard after standing for a moment dispersed into the wood,
  taking pot-shots at the Greys, who were forming up on the first
  available open space; as this could not be submitted to it became
  necessary, as there were no infantry present, to dismount a portion
  of the Regᵗ to skirmish in the wood against the irritating Russian
  Infantry, who, after firing at the horsemen, threw themselves down
  and pretended to be dead.

  "Sir Edward B. Hamley, writing in 1855, in his book, 'The Campaign
  in the Crimea, London, Blackwood,' alludes to having been present
  at this incident, saying, 'Some of the Scots Greys dismounting went
  skirmishing through the wood, and about a dozen Russians throwing
  themselves down and pretending to be dead, rose after they were
  past and fired on them, for which discreditable ruse they were, as
  they deserved to be, all put to death.'

  "This was too much for Jock and he proceeded to use his carbine,
  not however before consulting the Sergeant-Major, (so the
  regimental story goes,) in the words 'Sairgent-Major, shall I shoot
  'em?' and the prompt reply came, 'Most unquestionably!'

  "In the meantime an excited Staff Officer came to the Colonel of
  the Regᵗ asking for 'six determined men' to gallop down the ravine
  road and upset the foremost Russian carriage so as to secure the
  convoy. Again the story goes that the Colonel promptly replied by
  ordering 'from the right number off six!' and away they went with
  the happiest result--amongst other loot there was Menschikoff's
  carriage in which was stored a lot of champagne which it is
  needless to say was broached without much delay.

  "In the carriage was a Colonel of high rank who evidently had not
  forgotten to use the contents of the Prince's carriage.

  "He was transferred as a prisoner to the Fleet later on--where he
  remained till at Petersburg the authorities consented to release
  Lord Dunkellin who had been taken prisoner and whose exchange was
  conditional on the return of this officer. There are stories extant
  about his subsequent fate.

  "This casual encounter was so far useful for the moment, that
  it must have rather mystified the enemy as to the places of the
  allies, but Lord Raglan feeling the importance of regaining the
  coast, his army being for the time scattered for miles along a
  thin line, at once retraced his steps and continued his march by
  the steep road down the Mackenzie heights: and towards sunset
  the light and first divisions streamed across the plain followed
  shortly after by the 2nd Division, and subsequently by the French
  Army bearing with them in a litter Marshall St. Arnaud in a dying
  condition. He died, a few days after the town of Balaclava was
  occupied, on board a French Ship of War.

  "Sir John Adye who was present on the occasion describes 'the Flank
  march' as the one great strategic success of the whole War.

  "'The fortunate result of the flank march, by giving the allied
  generals possession of the excellent, though diminutive, harbour of
  Balaclava, and thus affording them a safe communication with their
  fleets, relieved them of one of the anxieties hitherto attending
  their movements, and enabled them to devote all their attention to
  the one great object of the expedition--the capture of Sebastopol.'

  "Considering the immense importance of this little harbour, the
  only depot of the English Army and considering its isolated
  position, it being several miles from the plateau on which the
  infantry of the army was encamped its defence was a cause of keen
  anxiety.

  "It can scarcely be supposed that a few Turkish redoubts with the
  93rd Highlanders under Sir Colin Campbell was a suitable defence
  for such a place--and yet what was there besides the Cavalry
  encamped in the plain?

  "The Cavalry it is true had been reinforced by the arrival of the
  heavy Cavalry Regtˢ (since the flank march described above) which
  had been left at Varna on the other side of the Black Sea: and
  their performance on the occasion of the coming battle is perhaps
  as well known as any incident during the Crimean War. But the
  battle was not merely a dash and a ride, and to understand what
  took place requires some sifting of the circumstances so as to
  arrive at a definite notion of the _day's work_.

  "After the middle of October the first reinforcements for Prince
  Menschikoff's army having arrived the enemy had been observed for
  some days hovering in the neighbourhood of Balaclava and the troops
  there were constantly kept on the alert.

  "At day break on the 25th October General Liprandi with 20,000
  infantry, supported by a strong force of cavalry and about 40
  guns made a determined attack and in the words of Sir E. Hamley
  the battle commenced by 'the Russian guns on the eminences and in
  the valley opened a cannonade on the outposts held by the Turks.
  A troop of Horse Artillery and a field battery supported by the
  Scots Greys were ordered up to Balaclava to the slopes between
  the outposts and found themselves opposed to the fire of several
  field batteries and service guns of position which covered an
  advance of infantry against the hills on the right. As the troop
  was armed with only 6-pounders, it and the field battery were
  quite over-matched, both in metal and in numbers; nevertheless our
  artillery maintained the contest till its ammunition was exhausted,
  when it retired, having lost a good many horses and a few men
  besides Maude the Captain of the troop, who was severely wounded by
  a shell which burst in his horse.'

  "Time had still to be given to the infantry to arrive from the
  plateau miles away, therefore the squadrons had to be withdrawn
  very _gradually_, all the time being under the fire of Liprandi's
  guns.

  "Thus opened the Battle of Balaklava, the engagement continued
  through the day with separate incidents, with intervals between
  them, and marked by singular interest. Sir Edward Hamley, after
  speaking with measured words of one of these incidents which
  immediately preceded the well-known cavalry charge of the Heavy
  Brigade, says, 'There was something almost theatrical in the
  grandeur of this portion of the spectacle; the French stationed on
  the heights, and the English passing along them, looked down, as if
  from the benches of an amphitheatre, on the two bodies of cavalry
  meeting in mortal shock on the level grassy plain, which enclosed
  on every side by lofty mountains would have been a fit arena for a
  tournament of giants.'"

The next home movements of the Regiment were: 1857, Newbridge; 1858
and 1859, Dublin; 1860, Newbridge; 1861, Dublin; 1862 and 1863,
Edinburgh; 1864, Birmingham; 1865, Aldershot; 1866, Newbridge; 1867,
Dublin; 1868, Dundalk; 1869, Cahir; 1870, Dublin; 1871, Longford; 1872
and 1873, Edinburgh; 1874, Aldershot; 1875, Brighton; 1876 and 1877,
Leeds; 1878, York; 1879 and 1880, Dundalk; 1881, Dublin; 1882 and 1883,
Ballincollig; 1884 and 1885, Edinburgh; 1886 and 1887, Aldershot;
1888, Brighton; 1889 and 1890, Dundalk; 1891 and 1892, Newbridge;
1893, Dublin; 1895 and 1896, Aldershot; 1897, Hounslow; 1898 and
1899, Edinburgh; 1900, 1901, and 1902, South Africa; 1903 and 1904,
Stellenbosch in Cape Colony; 1905, Norwich; 1906, Edinburgh; 1904,
Middelburg.

[Illustration:

                               MEMORIAL
                            ERECTED TO THE
                               MEMORY OF
                             FALLEN HEROES
                               +OF THE+
                           ROYAL SCOTS GREYS

                          UNVEILING CEREMONY
                             PERFORMED BY
                             THE RT. HON.
                           EARL OF ROSEBERY,
                            +K.G.+, +K.T.+,
                              EDINBURGH,
                        +16th November, 1906+.]

 _Lord Rosebery, at the unveiling of the Memorial, spoke as follows_:--

  +Colonel Coventry Williams, and Gentlemen of the Scots Greys+,

  You have done me a great honour in asking me to unveil this
  memorial, and, if I may say so, you have done a wise thing in
  erecting it. You have raised to the memory of your comrades a
  memorial in the Capital of Scotland, under the shadow of Edinburgh
  Castle, in the noblest street in the world. But, as things are,
  it must be a memorial not merely to the dead, to those who have
  fallen, but to that proud and illustrious regiment which you
  represent, and which, in the inscrutable dispensation of the higher
  powers, we are so soon to lose for ever from our midst. For the
  Scots Greys are bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh. They were
  raised, indeed, in these Lowlands of ours under circumstances which
  do not so much elicit our sympathy as the events of their later
  history, though they were raised by a Lothian man, Colonel Dalziel
  of Binns; as they were raised for the purpose of harrying the
  Covenanters, who represented the backbone of the character and the
  history of Scotland in the reign of the last two Stuarts. However,
  they were soon to be called to higher duties than those of civil
  war. They served gloriously under Marlborough in the Low Countries;
  they fought all through the wars of the eighteenth century; they
  captured a standard at Dettingen; and yet the time of their full
  glory had not come. It was at Waterloo that their chance came;
  it was in that tremendous charge when, with the Inniskillings
  and the Royals, they rode down masses of French infantry--in
  that tremendous charge where Sergeant-Major Ewart, one of your
  non-commissioned officers, wrested an eagle from the French, and
  cut down successively three gallant Frenchmen who stood to defend
  it. Later on that day they came to the assistance of a small body
  of the 92nd Highlanders, and they together, to the cry of "Scotland
  for Ever," annihilated a greatly superior column of the enemy which
  was opposed to them. And, again, as the shades of evening drew on,
  they joined in the unrelenting pursuit of the broken enemy until
  darkness put an end to the engagement. Surely no regiment ever had
  a prouder day than that. It need not be fiction, but may well be
  believed, that Napoleon himself recognised their achievement, and
  honoured their heroic courage. It is not, then, in vain, that to
  this day, and for all time to come, the Scots Greys bear with them
  the symbol of the Eagle and the name of Waterloo.

  Then they were called to serve in the Crimea. We speak in the
  presence of a distinguished Russian officer; but the brave honour
  the brave, and he will allow me to recall, even in his presence,
  that charge of the Heavy Brigade at Balaclava, partially forgotten
  in the more startling achievement of the Light Brigade, but still
  splendid and memorable, when the Heavy Brigade, headed once more
  by the Scots Greys and the Inniskillings, rode through the dense
  masses of the enemy. It was at the close of that day that Sir Colin
  Campbell, afterwards Lord Clyde, rode up to the regiment and with
  bared head said to them: "Scots Greys, I am sixty-one, but were
  I a young man I would ask for nothing better than the honour of
  serving in your ranks." Then came the South African War. That was a
  very different campaign. It was war carried on in vast solitudes,
  against small bodies of men--against an enemy that was almost
  always invisible. No such heart-breaking or harassing work for a
  soldier can be conceived. It afforded no room for the splendid
  achievements of Waterloo and the Crimea. It required perseverance,
  patience, and vigilance, almost as much as courage; but is not cold
  courage--cold-blooded courage prolonged through long years--at
  least as meritorious as the hot, warm-blooded courage of the onset?
  The British Army in South Africa fought under harassing conditions.
  They fought a new warfare; they fought hardship and disease; and
  they fought under the discouragement of military operations carried
  on with patience through long years to a tardy but triumphant
  result.

  Gentlemen, I was with the Scots Greys at their last dinner in this
  city; it was a cheerful dinner, but it was not glad or triumphant.
  We met under the shadow of a humiliating reverse; we knew that,
  humanly speaking, we could not expect that all who were then
  present would return to us again. We knew at any rate that all were
  about to face the unknown, and we then resolved and declared that
  evening that having put our hands to this thing we would see it
  through; that we would muddle through somehow, and somehow or other
  we did muddle through. Some of those who were there that night did
  not return, and it is to their memory that we erect this memorial
  to-day.

  Honour to the unreturning brave, the brave who will return no
  more. We shall not see their faces again. In the service of their
  Sovereign and their country they have undergone the sharpness of
  death, and sleep their eternal sleep thousands of miles away in
  the green solitudes of South Africa. Their places, their comrades,
  their saddles will know them no more, for they will never return
  to us as we knew them. But in a nobler and a higher sense, have
  they not returned to us to-day? They return to us with a message of
  duty, of courage, of patriotism. They return to us with a memory
  of high duty faithfully performed. They return to us with the
  inspiration of their example. Peace, then, to their dust. Honour to
  their memory. Scotland for ever!

     [_A copy of the speech was presented to every Trooper of the
             Regiment, with Lord Rosebery's best wishes._]




CHAPTER VII.


The following very valuable history is kindly communicated by the
officers of the Regiment:--

              HISTORICAL RECORDS OF THE ROYAL SCOTS GREYS,
                               1899-1902.

The Regiment received orders to mobilise for service in South Africa on
September 7th, 1899.

Mobilisation was completed on October 17th, 1899.

Absent, 1 man (No. 3325, Pte. Kimber).

  _Nov. 5th._--Headquarters and B Squadron embarked at Glasgow on
            s.s. _Ranee_. The following officers embarked:--

  Lieut.-Col. Hon. W. P. Alexander.
  Major W. H. Hippisley.
  Major H. F. T. Hawley.
  Capt. J. Crabbie, Act. Quarter-Master.
  Capt. and Adjt. A. D. Miller.
  Capt. E. A. Maude.
  Lieut. E. Usher.
  Lieut. A. Lawson.
  Lieut. F. Swetenham.
  Second Lieut. I. A. Finlay.
  Lieut. R. E. McI. Lomer (3rd Dn. Gds.), Transport Officer, attached.
  Major A. F. Russel, R.A.M.C.
  Vety.-Lieut. H. A. Sullivan, A.V.D.

            Owing to an outbreak of pink eye A and C Squadrons had to
            be entirely remounted.

  16th.--C Squadron left Edinburgh for Southampton, and embarked on
            s.s. _British Princess_, having taken over commandeered
            horses at Aldershot.

            The following officers embarked:--

  Capt. C. W. M. Fielden.
  Capt. C. J. Maxwell.
  Lieut. C. P. Foster.
  Lieut. B. D. Fordyce.
  Second Lieut. W. Long.
  Second Lieut. Hon. W. McClintock Bunbury.

  _Nov. 17th._--A Squadron left Edinburgh, and proceeded via
            Dublin to Cork, and embarked on s.s. _Antillian_ at
            Queenstown, after taking over a squadron of horses from
            the 17th Lancers.

            The following officers embarked:--

  Major W. C. Middleton.
  Capt. W. F. Collins.
  Lieut. J. C. Harrison.
  Lieut. A. G. Seymour.
  Lieut. Hon. A. J. M. St. Clair.
  Second Lieut. G. G. Middleton.
  Casualties:--No. 3382 Pte. Hay, died of disease.

  _Dec. 6th._--Headquarters and B Squadron disembarked at Cape
            Town and marched to Maitland Camp.

            Butts of lances and fronts of mess tins were painted
            khaki colour.

  _7th._--The Hon. R. H. Lindsay rejoined from Australia.

  _8th._--Arrival of remaining squadrons; one man died at sea.

  _11th._--Lieut. Lomer, with 14 drivers and wagonmen, left Maitland
            Camp for Stellenbosch, to take over transport for the
            regiment.

            Major Forrester, Royal Canadian Dragoons, joined, to be
            attached.

  _12th._--The regiment entrained at Cape Town for Orange River,
            arriving there on 14th. The original destination was
            Naaupoort, but this was changed _en route_. Regiment
            employed holding line of Orange River.

  _15th._--Shaving was optional from this date.

  _16th._--A Squadron, under Major W. C. Middleton, with Capt. W.
            F. Collins, Lieuts. J. C. Harrison, A. G. Seymour, and
            Second Lieut. G. G. Middleton, proceeded by rail to
            Honeynest Kloof.

  _Dec. 27th._--Telegram from H.M. the Queen to
            Commander-in-Chief:--

            "I wish you and all my brave troops a Happy Christmas.
            God protect and bless you all."

  _30th._--Headquarters, with B and C Squadrons, marched from Orange
            River to Marks Drift, to co-operate, if opportunity
            arose, with Lieut.-Col. Pilcher's force, acting against a
            force of rebels near Douglas.

  _Jan. 1st._--Major H. J. Scobell rejoined from special duty
            (New Orleans), under Remount Department.

  _5th._--Headquarters, with B and C Squadrons, marched from Marks
            Drift to Orange River Station.

  _6th._--Message from the Queen:--

            "I wish you all a bright and happy New Year. God bless
            you all."

  _8th._--C Squadron, under Major H. J. Scobell, marched from Orange
            River to Zoutpansdrift.

            No. 3358 Pte. W. Cunningham killed by a bull at
            Stellenbosch.

  _14th._--Capt. C. J. Maxwell, with 38 N. C. officers and men C
            Squadron, marched from Orange River to Zoutpansdrift.

  _24th._--Casualties: Wounded, 3726 Pte. Twynholm, detached from
            regiment (Spearman's) in Natal.

  _28th._--No. 4071 S. S. A. Thompson died of enteric, Wynberg.

            During the period it was at Orange River the regiment was
            occupied watching the river from Hopetoun on the west to
            Zoutpans on the east; also in patrolling the railway line
            to the north. We had a force at Hopetoun.

  _Feb. 2nd._--B Squadron and Headquarters marched from Orange
            River to Witteputs, _en route_ to join the force at
            Modder River.

  _3rd._--B Squadron and Headquarters marched from Witteputs to
            Belmont.

  _4th._--B Squadron and Headquarters marched from Belmont to Wolfe's
            Well.

  _Feb. 5th._--Wolfe's Well halt.

            No. 3297 Pte. W. Ross died of disease at Orange River
            Station.

  _6th._--B Squadron and Headquarters marched from Wolfe's Well to
            Modder River.

            Rev. Cathel Kerr attached to regiment.

  _7th._--Modder River. The regiment was brigaded with the Household
            Cavalry and 10th Hussars, under General Babington.

  _8th._--A Squadron marched from Honeynest Kloof, and rejoined the
            regiment at Modder River.

            B Squadron took part in the action at Koodoosburg, under
            General Babington. The cavalry was now reorganised.
            The regiment formed part of the 1st Cavalry Brigade
            (Carabiniers, Greys, one squadron Inniskillings, one
            squadron New South Wales Lancers, T Battery, R.H.A.,
            under Colonel Porter).

  _11th._--A and B Squadrons, with Headquarters, marched from Modder
            River at 3 a.m. to Ram Dam, to the relief of Kimberley. C
            Squadron rejoined regiment at Ram Dam.

            Lieut.-Col. the Hon. W. P. Alexander commanded the
            brigade, and Major W. H. Hippisley the regiment.

  _12th._--The division marched at 2 a.m., and forced passage of
            Riet River, engaged the enemy _en route_; no casualties.
            Bivouacked Waterval Drift; a few horses wounded.

            Capt. J. Crabbie invalided to England.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Waterval Drift at 8 a.m.;
            parties of the enemy met with on front and right flank.
            Surprised enemy's camp who were holding Klip Drift and
            captured it. Bivouacked Klip Drift. During the engagement
            with a party on the right flank, Lieut. Dixon Johnson,
            Inniskillings, was severely wounded.

            A fire broke out on the veldt, and it was only with
            difficulty the wounded were got away.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Klip Drift at 8.30 a.m. Strong
            force of the enemy located, holding strong positions. The
            brigade came under shell fire from the left flank, but
            this fire was silenced, after considerable loss, by the
            R.H.A. The division was then ordered to charge in lines
            of brigades (3rd, 2nd, and 1st), and the centre of the
            enemy's position was forced under a heavy, but not very
            effective, fire from the flank and front. The gallop was
            continued for some three or four miles, and then the
            march to Kimberley resumed. Kimberley was reached about
            7 p.m., enemy retiring from several positions round the
            town after firing a few rounds from their guns.

            Casualties:--Wounded--No. 3354 Pte. Sutherland, 3237 Pte.
            McGinn.

  _Feb. 16th._--The regiment marched at 4.30 a.m. for
            reconnaissance; enemy located at Dronfield in strong
            position. Position was attacked by B and C Squadrons.

            Casualties:--Killed--No. 4338 L.-Cpl. Stirrat?, No. 3352
            Pte. Lynn, 3517 Pte. Watson. Wounded--Lieut. W. Long,
            Lieut. R. D. Fordyce, 2nd Lieut. Hon. W. McClintock
            Bunbury, No. 3007 Cpl. Cochrane, 4395 Pte. McHugh, 4216
            Pte. Watt, 3711 Pte. Jones. Returned to Kimberley.

  _17th._--2nd Lieut. the Hon. W. McClintock Bunbury died of wounds
            received on 16th inst., and was buried in Kimberley
            Cemetery.

  _18th._--Kimberley.

  _19th._--Kimberley.

  _20th._--Kimberley.

            Major W. H. Hippisley invalided to England; also
            Vety.-Surgeon Sullivan.

  _21st._--The regiment, with 1st Brigade, marched from Kimberley to
            Kameelfontein to rejoin the division at Paardeburg.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Kameelfontein to Koodoos Rand
            Drift.

            Bivouacked on north bank of Modder River.

            Telegram from H.M. the Queen to Lord Roberts:--

            "Pray express my satisfaction to General French and those
            under him on his brilliant success. I trust that the sick
            and wounded are doing well."

            Orders by General French:--

            "In promulgating to the Cavalry Division Her Majesty's
            gracious message, the Lieutenant-General desires to
            convey to commanding officers, officers, N.C.O.'s and
            men, his warmest thanks for the support and assistance
            he has received from them, and to express his profound
            admiration for the skill and courage so abundantly
            displayed at every critical phase of the operations, and
            for the cheerfulness with which they have endured much
            privation and hardship. To this alone he attributes the
            great success which must go far to place the cavalry and
            R.H.A. high in the estimation of Queen and country."

  _Feb. 25th._--A reconnaissance was made of the enemy's position
            to the north; although the regiment came under heavy fire
            no casualty occurred.

            Lieut. T. Connolly rejoined from Egyptian Army.

            No. 4172 Cpl. Pott promoted Sergeant for gallantry in the
            field in the action at Dronfield.

  _26th._--The regiment marched for outpost duty, and remained
            holding portion of ground around Cronje's laager during
            night.

            Returned to bivouac at 9.30 a.m.

  _27th._--Cronje surrendered.

  _Mar. 1st._--Telegram from H.M. the Queen:--

            "Accept for yourself and all your command my warmest
            congratulations on the splendid news."

            Telegram from H.R.H. the Prince of Wales:--

            "Sincerest congratulations."

            Similar telegram from F.-M. Viscount Wolseley and H.R.H.
            the Duke of Connaught.

            No. 4351 Pte. Reid died of disease at Klip Drift.

  _4th._--No. 3762 Pte. Haig killed on railway, Maitland.

  _5th._--Vety.-Lieut. Ensor joined for duty.

            Forage rations are nominally 5 lbs. per horse.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Koodoosrand Drift to Osfontein,
            where a force was being concentrated to attack enemy's
            positions near Poplar Grove. Before leaving all lances
            were handed in, and used no more during the campaign.

            Capt. R. Thompson, Lieut. K. K. McKellor, J. F. M.
            Wilkinson, P. M. Vaughan, and A. Ebsworth, with 1st
            Squadron Australian Horse, joined, and were attached to
            the Greys during their stay in South Africa. They were a
            fine squadron, and did excellent work on all occasions.

  _Mar. 7th._--The regiment marched from Osfontein; enemy located
            about 9.30 a.m. They immediately evacuated their
            position, and as the horses were too weak to pursue
            properly, a running fight was kept up for several hours.

            Bivouacked at Poplar Grove.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Poplar Grove at 12 noon, to
            Wyaaihoek.

  _9th._--Wyaaihoek.

            Rev. Cathel Kerr died of disease, Kimberley.

  _10th._--C Squadron, under Major H. J. Scobell, marched at 4 a.m.
            A and B Squadrons marched at 6.30 a.m. Enemy located in
            position at Driefontein, which was eventually taken,
            after heavy loss, by 6th Infantry Division.

            Bivouacked Driefontein. Casualties:--Wounded--2423 Sergt.
            Tptr. Inkster, 4394 Pte. Harris.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Driefontein to Francis Vlei.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Francis Vlei. Enemy located
            in the evening in strong position near Bloemfontein. C
            Squadron, under Major H. J. Scobell, was detached to
            take a position, which they rushed under heavy fire,
            and held it during the night. Several horses killed.
            Bivouacked Skene's Farm. This position, taken and held by
            C Squadron, proved to be the key to Bloemfontein.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Skene's Farm towards
            Bloemfontein. After firing a few shots, the enemy
            retired, and the city surrendered to Lord Roberts about
            10.30 a.m.

            Bivouacked west of Bloemfontein.

  _14th._--Army Orders: "It affords the F.-M. Commanding-in-Chief the
            greatest pleasure in congratulating the Army in South
            Africa on the events which have occurred during the past
            few weeks, and he would especially offer his sincerest
            thanks to that portion of the Army under his immediate
            command which have taken part in the operations,
            resulting yesterday in the capture of Bloemfontein. On
            February 12th this force crossed the boundary which
            divided the Orange Free State from British territory.
            Three days later Kimberley was relieved. On the fifteenth
            day the bulk of the Boer army in the State, under one of
            their most trusted generals, was made prisoners.

            "On the seventeenth day the news of the relief of
            Ladysmith was received, and on March 13th, 29 days from
            the commencement of the operations, the capital of the
            Orange Free State was occupied. This is a record of which
            any army may well be proud--a record which could not have
            been achieved except by earnest, well-disciplined men,
            determined to do their duty, and to surmount whatever
            difficulties or dangers might be encountered. Exposed
            to extreme heat by day, bivouacking under heavy rain,
            marching long distances, not infrequently with reduced
            rations, the endurance, cheerfulness, and gallantry
            displayed by all ranks are beyond praise; and Lord
            Roberts feels sure that neither H.M. the Queen nor the
            British nation will be unmindful of the efforts made by
            the Force to uphold the honour of their country.

            "The Field-Marshal desires especially to refer to the
            fortitude and heroic spirit with which the wounded have
            borne their sufferings.

            "Owing to the great extent of country over which modern
            battles have to be fought, it is not always possible
            to afford immediate relief to those who are struck
            down. Many hours have indeed elapsed before some of the
            wounded could be attended to, but not a word or murmur
            of complaint has been uttered. The anxiety of all when
            succour came was that their comrades should be cared for
            first. In assuring every officer and man how much he
            appreciates their efforts in the past, Lord Roberts is
            confident that in the future they will continue to show
            the same resolution and soldierly qualities, and to lay
            down their lives if need be (as so many brave men have
            already done) in order to assure that the war in South
            Africa may be brought to a satisfactory conclusion."

  _Mar. 15th, 16th, and 17th._--At Bloemfontein.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Bloemfontein at 7.50 a.m. to
            Wessel's Farm, where it bivouacked.

  _20th._--Information received of the death of General Clarke, C.B.,
            Colonel of the regiment.

  _25th._--No. 4042 Cpl. Peters died of disease at Kimberley.

            No. 3333 Pte. Kilgour died of disease at Kimberley.

  _28th._--The regiment which, owing to loss of horses, numbered 76
            all ranks, marched from Wessel's Farm to take part in the
            operations at Karee Siding. Bivouacked at Glen Siding.

  _29th._--The regiment took part in the engagement near Karee
            Siding, one Australian trooper was killed and one
            wounded. A few horses hit. Bivouacked near Glen Station.

  _30th._--Returned to Wessel's Farm near Bloemfontein.

  _31st._--The regiment marched from Wessel's Farm about 12 noon,
            leaving behind all men and horses unable to march, under
            Major W. C. Middleton, to Sannah's Post, to the relief
            of General Broadwood's column, which had been ambushed
            by the enemy. Guns took up position. B Squadron located
            enemy in force in the waterworks and on the lines of the
            Modder River.

  _Apr. 1st._--80 wounded of the 2nd Cavalry Brigade were found
            in the station buildings, and after considerable
            difficulty were got away in ambulances and sent to
            Bloemfontein.

            Major H. J. Scobell with C Squadron (about 30 all told)
            were left for the night at Sannah's Post.

            Brigade returned to rejoin the Division.

  _2nd._--The Brigade marched to Springfield.

            The detachment of the regiment under Major Middleton
            marched from Wessel's Farm at 2 p.m. to Springfield,
            being joined by the regiment from Sannah's Post.

  _10th._--2nd Lieuts. J. F. Rhodes and C. Otway joined from England.

  _Apr. 20th._--A patrol under Lieut. J. Lomer left camp at 9
            a.m. for reconnaissance. No enemy.

  _27th._--Major F. H. T. Hawley died of disease at Bloemfontein.

  _28th._--2nd Lieut. W. Long invalided to England.

            2nd Lieut. R. D. Fordyce invalided to England.

  _30th._--4326 Pte. Cormie died of disease, Bloemfontein.

  _May 1st._--Springfield.

  _2nd._--2nd Lieut. T. Parker joined from Inniskilling Dragoons.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Springfield to Roodeheuvel to
            take part in the general advance of the army to Pretoria.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Roodeheuvel to Eensgebonden.

            No. 4137 Pte. Moore died of disease at Bloemfontein.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Eensgebonden at 7 a.m. to
            Smaldeel. Capt. and Adjt. A. D. Miller to hospital.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Smaldeel at 5.45 a.m. to Du Prees
            Laager.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Du Prees Laager. Strong force
            of the enemy met with at Vredes Verdrag about 11 a.m.
            A squadron under Major Middleton with one squadron
            Inniskillings, and one squadron Carabiniers was detached
            to hold position, but enemy advancing in too strong
            numbers they were forced, with the following casualties,
            to retire:--

            Killed: No. 3035 Pte. Wellstead, 3753 Pte. Barclay, 4229
            Pte. Pegler.

            Wounded: 2765 S. S. M. Casswell, 3688 Sergt. Ramage,
            3313 Cpl. Morgan, 3467 Cpl. Wake, 4268 Cpl. White, 3614
            Pte. Garrett, 3918 Pte. Kidd, 4145 Pte. Newberry, Lieut.
            Wilkinson, 1st Australian Horse.

            Cpl. Tosh taken prisoner.

            35 horses killed.

            Bivouacked at Graspan.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Graspan at 6.30 a.m. towards
            Kroonstad. Enemy had all retired. Bivouacked at Boospoort
            Drift.

  No. 3615 Pte. Newberry died of wounds at Ventersburg Road.

  _May 12th._--The regiment marched from Boospoort Drift to
            Jordaan's Siding (Kroonstad).

            Rev. W. Paterson joined.

            Capt. R. Thompson, 1st Australian Horse, invalided to
            England.

  _13th to 19th._--The regiment was engaged in reconnaissance,
            small scattered parties of the enemy met with every day.
            No casualties.

  _20th._--The regiment marched from Jordaan's Siding to Mahemsvlei.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Mahemsvlei at 7.40 a.m. to
            Welgelegen.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Roodeval at 2.45 a.m. Enemy
            reported to be in force on the railway, and regiment
            endeavoured to cut off their retreat. On arriving at the
            railway they had all retired. Bivouacked at Essenbosch.
            No casualties.

            4053 Cpl. Rodgers died of disease at Kroonstad.

            3432 Pte. Dyet died of disease at Kroonstad.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Essenbosch to Viljoen's Drift,
            and crossed the Vaal into Transvaal. Civil Vety.-Surg. E.
            T. S. Ensor died of disease at Kroonstad.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Viljoen's Drift to Zeekoefontein.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Zeekoefontein, located strong
            force of enemy about 2 p.m. retiring in the direction of
            Johannesburg.

            Bivouacked Reit.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Reit Kuil to Elandsfontein.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Elandsfontein at 7.15
            a.m. Parties of enemy met with who opened fire
            at close range on advance scouts, then retired.
            Casualties:--Wounded--2928 Cpl. Kerin.

            Bivouacked at Reitfontein.

  _29th._--The regiment marched from Reitfontein at 7.15 a.m. Strong
            force of the enemy in position defending Johannesburg.

            Remained holding ground under heavy shell fire all day.
            No casualties.

            Bivouacked Vlakfontein.

  _May 30th._--The regiment marched from Vlakfontein at 6 a.m.,
            and attacked right flank of enemy's position which was
            driven back, and march continued to Klipfontein. No
            casualties.

  _June 1st._--The regiment marched from Klipfontein at 5 a.m. to
            Berg Vlei, small parties of the enemy met with _en
            route_, who retired.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Berg Vlei at 6.15 a.m., surprised
            enemy about 2.30 p.m., capturing several of their wagons
            and oxen and some prisoners. The enemy retired and
            took up a strong position at Kalkheuvel Pass which was
            attacked by the brigade.

            A and part of C Squadron, under Major W. C. Middleton,
            occupied, under shell and rifle fires, commanding
            position on enemy's left flank, and remained holding it
            all night. The enemy retired under cover of the darkness,
            leaving several of their wagons overturned in donga.
            Casualties:--Wounded--4306 Pte. Hughes, and a few horses.

            Bivouacked Kalkheuvel Pass.

  _4th._--The G.O.C. Cavalry Division ordered commanding officers
            to express to regiments his extreme satisfaction with
            the conduct of the officers and men of the regiments on
            the occasion of the fight near Kalkheuvel yesterday. He
            considers the position to have been very critical, and
            is of opinion that had it not been for the prompt action
            of the Cavalry and R.H.A. the result might have been
            different.

            General French expressed his great satisfaction with the
            part taken by the regiment in this action.

            The regiment marched from Kalkheuvel Pass at 7 a.m. to
            Zilikat's Nek. A Squadron under Major W. C. Middleton
            occupying the Nek.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Zilikat's Nek at 9 a.m., to north
            of Pretoria Forts; no enemy.

            Bivouacked Hartebeesthook.

            Pretoria surrendered.

  _June 6th._--The regiment marched from Hartebeesthook at 6.15
            a.m.

            B Squadron with part of A, under Capt. E. A. Maude,
            forming advance guard towards Watervaal to release
            prisoners confined there. On the arrival of the advance
            scouts the enemy, after firing a few shots, retired.
            The wire of the prison was cut and prisoners released,
            numbering about 26 officers and 3,500 N.C.O.'s and men.
            During the departure of prisoners the enemy shelled them
            from their position. Casualties:--Wounded--Pte. Dunlop,
            and several horses.

            Bivouacked at Koodoespoort.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Koodoespoort to Silverdale.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Silverdale to Kameel Drift.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Kameel Drift at 5.20 a.m. Enemy
            reported at Pinaars Poort. The object was to try and turn
            enemy's right flank and operate in his rear.

            The regiment came under heavy fire about 6.30 a.m.,
            which continued all day, and eventually successful in
            turning enemy's flank, and occupied same ground. Several
            horses wounded. Bivouacked at Doornfontein. Later in the
            evening the enemy opened fire on the camp with two guns
            and pom-pom, Brigade had to move camp 400 yards (Diamond
            Hill).

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Doornfontein to Tweefontein.
            Enemy had retired.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Tweefontein at 7.20 a.m., to
            Kameel Drift.

            No. 3819 Pte. Proctor died of disease at Bloemfontein.

  _22nd._--No. 3782 Pte. Oliphant died of disease at Deelfontein.

  _25th._--_London Gazette._--Lieut. K. K. McKellar, from 1st
            Australian Horse, to be 2nd Lieut. 7th Dragoon Guards.

            During the regiment's stay at Kameel Drift it was
            employed in reconnaissance and outpost duties every day.

  _27th._--No. 3975 Pte. Powell died of disease at Wynberg.

            Capt. W. F. Collins invalided to England.

            A report having been received that Botha intended to
            attack the camp to-morrow, the regiment stood to from
            5.45 a.m.

  _June 30th._--2nd Lieut. Pilkington, 1st Royal Dragoons, was
            attached to the regiment from this date.

  _July 1st._--No. 3663 Pte. Freeman died of disease at
            Bloemfontein.

  _4th._--A and B Squadrons under Major W. C. Middleton marched from
            Kameel Drift at 11 a.m., and C Squadron with Headquarters
            marched at 8.30 a.m. to De Onderstpoort.

  _5th._--A patrol under Lieut. Connolly left camp at 5.30 a.m. for
            reconnaissance.

  _6th._--A patrol under Lieut. Hon. A. J. M. St. Clair left camp at
            5.30 a.m. for reconnaissance.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from De Onderstpoort at 5.30 a.m. to
            Hartebeestpoort.

  _8th._--C Squadron was detached to form part of a force to hold
            Zilikat's Nek, and B Squadron to hold Commando Nek.

            Capt. Miller appointed to General French's Staff.

  _9th._--A Squadron and Headquarters marched from Hartebeestpoort at
            3 p.m. to Reitfontein.

  _11th._--The Nek was attacked by a strong party of the enemy at
            daybreak, and after a very stubborn resistance for about
            12 hours, C Squadron and the rest of the force were
            compelled to surrender to superior numbers, ammunition
            being finished. The horses had been turned loose early in
            the action and rejoined Headquarters.

            Casualties:--Killed: Lieut. T. Conolly, 2nd Lieut.
            Pilkington, 1st Royal Dragoons (attached), 4089 Pte.
            Augarde.

            Wounded: Capt. C. J. Maxwell, 4554 S. S. Sim, 3647 Cpl.
            Nathan, 2866 Pte. Adair, 4375 Allen, 4446 Baird, 3511
            Currie, 3401 Downie, 3369 Fraser, 4304 Hagan, 4057
            Kitchen, 3849 Lewis, 3294 McCulloch, 4200 McLure, 4499
            McNicoll, 3873 Scudder, 4311 King.

            Major H. J. Scobell and 69 N.C.O.'s and men prisoners.

            Major Scobell succeeded in escaping the same evening, and
            walked to Pretoria.

            B Squadron was forced to retire from Commando Nek and
            fall back on Pretoria, A Squadron and Headquarters
            marched from Reitfontein at 7 a.m. to Daspoort.

  _July 13th._--No. 4357 Pte. Fraser died of disease at
            Bloemfontein.

  _14th._--A and B Squadrons with Headquarters marched from Daspoort
            at 8.30 a.m. to Derdepoort, N.C.O.'s and men of 10th
            Hussars, 12th Lancers, 18th and 19th Hussars, 6th Dragoon
            Guards, 6th Dragoons, were formed into one squadron which
            was named C.

            Wounded: 4270 Pte. Young at Olifantsfontein (detached).

            Vety.-Lieut. Mellish joined the regiment.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Derdepoort to join the
            1st Cavalry Brigade at Olifantsfontein. Bivouacked
            at Grootfontein, 3332 Cpl. Howe died of disease at
            Bloemfontein.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Grootfontein at 5.45 a.m. to
            Olifantsfontein, N.C.O.'s and men of Composite Regiment
            of Life Guards attached to C Squadron.

  _19th._--The regiment left camp at 5 p.m. for outpost duty.

  _20th._--Capt. Ricardo, R. H. Guards, E. G. Hardy, Imp. Yeo.,
            Tristram, 12th Lancers; Lieuts. Campbell, 16th Lancers,
            W. D. P. Watson, Imp. Yeo., and J. Ashby, Imp. Yeo.,
            attached to the regiment.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched from Olifantsfontein. Strong party of
            the enemy located, who opened with a heavy Pom-Pom and
            rifle fire, then retired. Casualties:--Killed: Lieut.
            A. Ebsworth, 1st Australian Horse, and several horses
            wounded. Bivouacked at Deeplaagte after dark.

            4272 Pte. Bell died of disease at Bloemfontein.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Deeplaagte. Enemy with guns
            located about 10 a.m., who kept up a heavy fire until
            evening, and then retired. No casualty. Bivouacked at
            Tweefontein.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Tweefontein to seize Drifts
            at Naauwpoort and Wolverkrantz, which was done. Enemy
            retired after firing a few rounds. Bivouacked at
            Naauwpoort. Very wet and cold, several horses died from
            exposure.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Naauwpoort. Enemy opened fire
            with a gun from truck on railway and then retired.

            No casualties. Bivouacked at Sterkwater.

  _July 17th._--The regiment marched from Sterkwater at 9.45 a.m.
            to Erfdeel Drift (Middelburg).

            Lieuts. F. Swetenham, C. P. Foster, and 2nd Lieut. C.
            Otway invalided to England.

  _Aug. 1st._--The regiment marched from Erfdeel Drift at 6.30
            a.m. to Klippan.

  _2nd to 17th._--The regiment was engaged in reconnaissance and
            outpost duty every day during their stay at Klippan.
            Sniping on several occasions by enemy's outpost.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Klippan to Goede Hoop.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Goede Hoop. Small parties of the
            enemy met with about 10 a.m., who retired. Bivouacked at
            Blesbokspruit. No casualties.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Blesbokspruit. Party of enemy
            located about noon holding ridge, they were driven off.
            No casualties. Bivouacked at Geluk.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Geluk. Enemy located holding
            position N.E. of Belfast. Regiment occupied the
            position under heavy fire from Pom-Pom and rifle, the
            enemy retiring were followed up by A Squadron and
            1st Australian Horse under Major W. C. Middleton.
            Casualties:--Wounded: Lieut. J. C. Harrison. Bivouacked
            at Langkloof.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Langkloof to Vlakplaats. Parties
            of enemy met _en route_. No casualties.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Vlakplaats to Vlakfontein.

  _29th._--The regiment marched from Vlakfontein; advance delayed by
            rear-guard of the enemy, they were driven back; advance
            continued to Waterval Onder. No casualties.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Waterval Onder to heights around
            Noitgedacht; prisoners were released, among whom were
            N.C.O.'s and men of C Squadron captured at Zilikat's Nek.
            Returned to Waterval Onder.

  _31st._--The regiment marched from Waterval Onder to Machadodorp.

  _Sept. 1st._--The regiment marched from Machadodorp to
            Zevenfontein.

  _Sept. 3rd._--Lieut. J. C. Harrison died of wounds at Pretoria.

            Capt. C. J. Maxwell invalided to England.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Zevenfontein to Welgelegen. A
            Squadron under Major W. C. Middleton located the enemy on
            left flank _en route_, who opened with heavy rifle fire,
            and then retired. Casualties, several horses wounded.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Welgelegen to Bonnefoi. Snipers
            met with _en route_.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Bonnefoi to Carolina. No enemy.

  _7th._--Lieut. R. Lomer, 3rd Dragoon Guards (attached), invalided
            to England.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Carolina; enemy occupied strong
            position in front of advance, but retired when darkness
            set in. Bivouacked at Bruffelspruit.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Bruffelspruit to Boschoek.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Boschoek to Hiomohlom.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Hiomohlom at 4.30 a.m., and
            surprised enemy preparing their breakfast, who retired,
            leaving everything.

            The country was very difficult to work over, and guns had
            to be lifted up the inclines; enemy opened with heavy
            rifle fire from scrub on top of mountain, but were forced
            to retire on the guns getting into position.

            Casualties:--Wounded: 2328 S. Q. M. S. Cairns. Bivouacked
            Vaalkop "Nelshoogte Pass."

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Vaalkop at 3.30 a.m., ascended
            very steep pass, and then across rough country by a small
            bridle path to Barberton. C Squadron, under Major H. J.
            Scobell, supported by A, under Major W. C. Middleton,
            were sent forward to cut the line north of the town,
            which was done with the assistance of a Farrier Cpl. of
            the 1st Life Guards (attached) with his tools. Several
            wagons and prisoners were taken, including the Landrost
            of Barberton with £14,000. In the town was captured 44
            engines and rolling-stock to the value of several hundred
            thousand pounds, besides large quantities of stores, etc.
            The prisoners were released, consisting of 23 officers
            and 59 N.C.O.'s and men. No casualties. Bivouacked on
            outskirts of town.

  _Sept. 14th._--The regiment paraded at 8.30 a.m. before the
            Courthouse for the ceremony of hoisting the Union Jack.

  _16th._--Regimental transport arrived.

  _21st._--Lieut. A. Lawson appointed A.D.C. to General Gordon.

  _22nd._--Lieut. Hon. R. H. A. Lindsay, and 2nd Lieut. G. Middleton
            invalided to England.

  _24th._--The regiment under Major H. J. Scobell marched at 6 a.m.
            for reconnaissance. No enemy.

  25th.--Farewell Order by Col. Hon. W. P. Alexander:--

            Col. Alexander desires to announce to the regiment that
            he relinquishes command of the Greys on his retirement
            to half-pay. He thanks all ranks for the support they
            have always given to him, and for their admirable conduct
            during the recent campaign. He wishes to say that his
            one thought has been, while maintaining the discipline
            and efficiency of the regiment, to make what all good
            regiments should be, a happy home to all those serving in
            it.

  _30th._--_London Gazette._--2nd Lieut. W. Long to be Lieut., vice
            T. Connolly, killed in action.

            Capt. C. B. Bulkeley-Johnson has been granted the Fourth
            Class Medjidieh decoration in recognition of services in
            connection with the recent military operations in the
            Soudan.

            During the stay of the regiment at Barberton Col. Hon. W.
            P. Alexander was Military Governor of the Town.

  _Oct. 3rd._--The regiment marched from Barberton to Reit
            Spruit. Heavy thunderstorm and rain all day, great
            difficulty with transport.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Reit Spruit to Kaapsche Hoop.
            Roads very bad.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Kaapsche Hoop to Godwaan.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Godwaan to Waterval Onder.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Waterval Onder to Machadodorp.

  _9th._--Details of 16th Lancers under Lieut. Campbell ceased to be
            attached to the regiment.

  _Oct. 10th._--2nd Lieut. D. McCombie joined from England.

  _12th._--Pte. E. H. Bonham, Duke of Cambridge's I.Y., joined as
            transport officer.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Machadodorp to Bonnefoi. Veldt
            fire in camp, 3.30 p.m.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Bonnefoi. Small parties of enemy
            met with. Bivouacked at Carolina.

  _15th._--Halted Carolina.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Carolina. Strong force of the
            enemy located about 9 a.m., who attacked advance scouts,
            but were driven off. Casualties:--Killed--4002 Pte.
            Valentine. Wounded--4185 Corporal Porter (died same
            night), 3433 Pte. Linnell, and several horses. Bivouacked
            at Witkrans, 10.30 p.m.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Witkrans to Mooiplaats. Snipers
            met with _en route_, and enemy tried to drive in C
            Squadron's outpost about 6 p.m., but on being reinforced
            by A Squadron and a pom-pom the enemy retired. No
            casualties.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Mooiplaats. Enemy attacked rear
            and left flank guard and followed up the regiment for
            several miles, then retired. No casualties. Bivouacked at
            Ermelo. Notification was received that the late Corporal
            Porter was promoted to a 2nd Lieutenancy in the 2nd
            Dragoon Guards.

  _19th._--General French addresses troops.

            The regiment marched from Ermelo at 5.20 a.m. Shortly
            after moving off, the enemy attacked rear-guard, and
            during the time the oxen were outspanned to graze a
            party of about 50 attacked a post held by a N.C.O. and
            few men, who kept them off until arrival of a squadron
            of Carabiniers. Casualties:--Killed--4445 Pte. Smith.
            Wounded--3315 Sad. Cpl. Rodgers, 3983 Pte. Waterer, 4035
            Hickey, 4412 Cpl. Lacker, 4981 Pte. Campbell, and several
            horses. Bivouacked at Reitvlei.

  _20th._--The regiment marched from Reitvlei to Bethel. Small
            parties of enemy attacked rear-guard and right flanks _en
            route_, but were driven off. No casualties.

  _Oct. 21st._--At Bethel. Outposts were sniped all day.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Bethel at 4 a.m. Heavy
            thunderstorm. Enemy attacked rear-guard shortly after
            leaving camp, but were driven off. No casualties.
            Bivouacked at Rooipoort.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched from Rooipoort to Winkleholk. Snipers
            _en route_. No casualties.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Winkleholk to Kaffirskuil. Enemy
            attacked rear-guard _en route_, but were driven off. No
            casualties.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Kaffirskuil to Witkop. No enemy.

  _26th._--Assisted General Dixon to guard Convoy.

            The regiment marched from Witkop at 4 a.m. to Heidelberg.
            Sniping all day. Casualties: one man, Australian Horse,
            killed.

  _27th._--_London Gazette._--Major W. H. Hippisley to be
            Lieutenant-Colonel, in succession to Col. Hon. W. P.
            Alexander; 2nd Lieut. I. A. Finlay to be Lieutenant.

  _29th._--N.C.O.'s and men of 1st Australian Horse, under the
            command of Lieut. Wilkinson, proceeded by rail to
            Pretoria, ceased to be attached (they had become
            reduced in numbers to 24 all ranks). N.C.O.'s and men
            of Composite Regiment Household Cavalry ceased to be
            attached.

            2nd Lieut. Hon. W. Montgomerie joined from 3rd Argyll and
            Sutherland Highlanders.

            _London Gazette._--Major W. C. Middleton to be second in
            command of the Regiment.

            2nd Lieut. G. G. Middleton to be Lieutenant.

            The regiment marched from Heidelberg to Springs.

  _31st._--The regiment was inspected by the Field-Marshal
            Commanding-in-Chief.

  _Nov. 1st._--The regiment marched from Springs to Reitfontein.
            Heavy rain all day.

  _Nov. 2nd._--The regiment marched from Reitfontein to
            Grootfontein. Heavy rain all day and all night.

  _3rd to 4th._--The regiment marched from Grootfontein to
            Pretoria to refit.

  _5th._--4662 Pte. Graham died of disease at Norvals Pont.

  2nd Lieut. J. L. M. Hutchison joined from England.

  _10th._--Farewell Order by General French:--

            "The Lieut.-General, on relinquishing the command,
            desires to express his deep regret in severing his
            immediate connection with the splendid force it has been
            his honour to command throughout an almost continuous
            series of engagements and active operations, commencing
            in February last to the present time. General French
            recalls with pride and satisfaction the many occasions
            during that period upon which he has personally witnessed
            the intrepid gallantry displayed by all ranks of the
            Cavalry Division. A glorious reminiscence which will be
            ever present to the end of his life.

            "The warmest thanks are due to Brigadiers, Commanding
            Officers, Officers, N.C. Officers and Men, for the
            skill, courage, and endurance which have been mainly
            instrumental in securing the successful results obtained."

  _13th._--The Committee of the Scottish Regiments Gifts Fund have
            sent 600 pipes and 600 boxes of tobacco for the regiment.

            Civil Vety.-Surg. Gamble attached to the regiment.

            Corpl. Hon. A. M. Henley, Compton's Horse, to be 2nd
            Lieutenant.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Pretoria to Kaalfontein.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Kaalfontein to Elandsfontein.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Elandsfontein to Klip River
            Station.

  _18th._--The regiment marched at 4.30 a.m. for reconnaissance. No
            enemy.

  _19th._--Lieut. E. Usher appointed Adjutant from 10th May and
            promoted Captain.

  _20th to 30th._--The regiment marched from Klip River Station
            to Varkenfontein.

  _Nov. 27th._--Major H. J. Scobell appointed to the command of
            1st Brabant's Horse.

  _29th._--The Rev. Greenfield attached to regiment.

            During the regiment's stay at Varkenfontein it was
            employed on reconnaissance duty every day, and stood to
            arms at 3.30 a.m. every morning.

  _Dec. 1st._--The regiment marched from Varkenfontein to Reit
            Kuil.

  _2nd._--The regiment marched from Reit Kuil at 3.50 a.m. Enemy
            occupied strong position on right of advance, were driven
            out without difficulty. Casualties:--Wounded, 3594
            Pte. Keogh, and several horses killed. Bivouacked at
            Kaalfontein.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Kaalfontein at 4.45 a.m. in
            connection with General Hart from the north, General
            Babington from the west, and General Douglas from the
            south, against the Losberg; enemy had retired. Bivouacked
            at Losberg. Capt. Seymour sick. Lieut. Finlay in command
            of C Squadron.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Losberg to Klopperskraal.

  _6th to 13th._--The regiment marched from Klopperskraal at 5
            a.m. to Meyerton.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Meyerton at 3.30 a.m. to
            Roodepoort.

  _11th._--B Squadron, under Capt. Maude, left for Orange Free State
            (attached to).

  _14th._--Four troops posted at different points on Railway north
            and south of Meyerton, where it was thought likely Boers
            would attempt a crossing. C Squadron to Loskop.

  _15th._--C Squadron joined on line of march.

            The regiment marched from Roodepoort at 3.45 a.m. to
            Krugersdorp.

  _16th._--The regiment left camp at 8.20 a.m. for reconnaissance. A
            Squadron, under Capt. C. W. M. Feilden, located enemy's
            laager, and were forced to retire under heavy fire.

  _17th._--2nd Lieut. C. R. Pawson joined from England.

  _19th._--The regiment marched from Krugersdorp to Blauwbank.

  _Dec. 20th._--The regiment marched from Blauwbank to
            Zandfontein. No. 3588 Pte. White died of disease at
            Germiston.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Zandfontein to Vlakfontein.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Vlakfontein to Hartebeestfontein.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched from Hartebeestfontein to Bank
            Station.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Bank Station to Welverdiend.

  _25th._--Marched from Welverdiend to Reitfontein.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Reitfontein to Welgevonden.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Welgevonden to Moddersfontein.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Moddersfontein to Welgevonden.

            One troop, under Lieut. Montgomerie, sent out to watch
            drifts at night.

                       CASUALTIES IN HORSES IN 1900.

           _How disposed of._          |           _Received._
                                       |
  Killed in action                185  |  From remount depots      1583
  Died of exhaustion              159  |  Captured from the enemy    50
  Destroyed                        95  |
  To sick depots                  960  |
  Left on veldt by order          226  |
                                 ----  |                           ----
                                 1625  |                           1633
                                 ====  |                           ====

                 CASUALTIES IN OFFICERS, N.C.O.'s AND MEN
                               DURING 1900.

                    Officers.   N.C.O.'s and Men.

  Died at sea          --               1
  Killed in action      1               8
  Died of wounds        2               4
   Do. of disease       1              22
  Wounded               3              43
                     ----            ----
                        7              78
                     ====            ====

       *       *       *       *       *

  _Jan. 1st._--Regiment sent to meet convoy from Parkersdorp. No
            sign of enemy.

  _2nd._--Regiment escorted convoy to Welgevonden.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Welgevonden to Reitfontein.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Reitfontein at 3.45 a.m. to
            Hartebeestfontein.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Hartebeestfontein at 4 a.m.
            Engaged the enemy at Nauwpoort Hill. C Squadron, under
            Lieut. I. A. Finlay, held kopje under heavy fire
            until reinforced by Scots Guards, when enemy retired.
            Casualties:--Wounded--Lieut. I. A. Finlay, 4497 Pte.
            Quinn, 3705 Lance-Cpl. Hall. Bivouacked at Zandfontein.

  _6th._--The enemy in force attacked camp at daybreak, but were
            driven off.

            All sick horses and dismounted men paraded at 5 a.m. and
            proceeded to Krugersdorp, C Squadron, under 2nd Lieut. D.
            McCombie, formed the escort.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Zandfontein to Vlakfontein.

  _8th._--A Squadron, with a section of R.H.A., and a company of
            infantry, under Major W. C. Middleton, with one day's
            supplies, left camp at 3.45 a.m. and proceeded to the
            high ground on the Mafeking Road, south of Kaalbult,
            to cover return of convoy. The convoy returning from
            Krugersdorp was attacked by a large force of the enemy,
            who charged within 100 yards; they were driven off. No
            casualties.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Vlakfontein to Kaalbult.

            3075 Cpl. Hall died of wounds received at Nauwpoort Hill.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Kaalbult to Blauwbank.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Blauwbank to Roodeval Drift.

            4646 Pte. Padget wounded while on patrol.

  _12th._--Marched to Roodeval Drift past Zwarttcop. Sniping.

            The regiment marched from Roodeval Drift to
            Rangiesfontein.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Rangiesfontein to Kaalfontein.

            Enemy attacked station, but were driven off.

  _Jan. 14th._--The regiment marched from Kaalfontein to
            Johannesburg to refit.

  _15th._--2nd Lieut. Hon. W. Montgomerie, with party of C Squadron,
            left camp at 4 a.m. to patrol in the direction of
            Zuurfontein.

  _16th._--Halt.

  _17th._--No. 3087 Pte. G. Oswald to England for discharge.

            1st Cavalry Brigade was broken up. The regiment
            formed part of the following force under Col.
            Allenby:--Carabiniers, Greys, C Battery R.H.A., one
            Elswick gun, and Lancashire Fusiliers.

  _18th._--Major Crabbie sent the C.O. £50 to be expended for the
            benefit of the N.C.O.'s and men. Messrs. McKinnell &
            Ross, Edinburgh, presented two cases of tobacco to the
            regiment.

  _23rd._--Sergt. Barron invalided to England.

  _26th._--Farewell address by General Gordon:--

            "The 1st Cavalry Brigade having been broken up, General
            Gordon hopes that the O.C. Royal Scots Greys will be good
            enough to permit him to express through Regimental Orders
            to all ranks of the regiment his very sincere thanks for
            their gallantry and devotion during the six months the
            Brigadier has had the honour to command the Brigade. No
            leader could possibly have been better served, and the
            Brigadier will always think of the Scots Greys and other
            units of the 1st Cavalry Brigade with the sincerest
            feelings of admiration and true affection."

            Carbines were now withdrawn and long rifles issued and
            carried to conclusion of the war.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Johannesburg at 5.30 a.m., via
            Reitfontein to Putfontein, to take part in operations
            in Eastern Transvaal against Botha, under Lieut.-Gen.
            French, forming part of eight columns stretching from
            Middelburg, on Delagoa Railway, to Heidelberg, on Natal
            line.

  _29th._--The regiment marched from Putfontein at 4 a.m., engaging
            enemy at Boschman's Kop, which was strongly held. On
            arrival of Col. Pulteney's column the enemy retired,
            leaving several dead and wounded. They were followed up
            by A Squadron under Capt. Feilden, and several prisoners
            and wagons were captured.

            Casualties:--Killed--3735 Pte. J. Stokes. Wounded--Ptes.
            3576 Harper, 3359 Bell, 3875 Angus, 3526 Sergt. Hughes,
            Ptes. 4586 Fergus, 4527 Colvin, 3896 Martin.

            Bivouacked at Reitfontein.

            No. 4937 Pte. T. Mercer died of disease at Germiston.

  _Jan. 30th._--Pom-pom of enemy opened fire as we were going
            into our lines. Made off on two squadrons being sent in
            pursuit.

            The regiment marched from Reitfontein at 8.50 a.m. to
            Watervals Hoek. No. 3896 Pte. Martin died from wounds
            received in action at Boschman's Kop. No. 4720 Pte.
            Archer accidentally wounded.

  _31st._--No move. Patrols to front engaged with enemy throughout
            the day.

            Lieut. I. A. Finlay invalided to England.

  _Feb. 1st._--Marched from Watervals Hoek 4.30 a.m. Encountered
            rear-guard of enemy with guns at Kromdraai. Three men of
            C Squadron wounded. Bivouacked at Winkelhoek.

  _2nd._--Marched to Rooipoort 4.30 a.m., enemy retiring before the
            scouts. Found a disabled gun at R.

            100 men C Squadron left camp under Lieut. D. McCombie at
            5 a.m., to escort convoy of empty wagons and sick.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Rooipoort to Elandsfontein.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Elandsfontein to Reitfontein.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Reitfontein at 4.20 a.m. to
            Vereeniging. Regiment sent in advance of column to seize
            Vereeniging Drift with two guns and battery, arriving
            1.30, caught several wagons and prisoners, many sheep and
            oxen. Column arriving about 4 p.m.

            Bivouacked at the drift.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Vereeniging at 4.20 a.m. to
            Damascus. Encountered enemy at Langervock. Shelled ridge
            for an hour, and continued advance to Damascus.

  _Feb. 7th._--The regiment marched from Damascus at 4.50 a.m. to
            Uitspan. Small parties of enemy met with, who retired.
            No. 3909 Pte. Edwards was wounded whilst employed with
            the brigade scouts.

  _8th._--One troop A Squadron under Lieut. J. F. Rhodes reconnoitred
            along north bank of Vaal as far as Tweefontein on Kaffir
            Spruit.

  _9th._--A patrol under 2nd Lieut. Hon. A. M. Henley proceeded as
            far as high ridge over Welgelegen to communicate with
            Col. Knox's patrols.

            Two troops C Squadron under 2nd Lieut. Hon. W. A.
            Montgomerie escorted wagons N.W. on foraging duties.

            One troop B Squadron under 2nd Lieut. T. Parker
            reconnoitred along Vaal to Tweefontein on Kaffir Spruit,
            leaving camp 5.30 a.m.

            One troop of A Squadron at 4.30 a.m., under 2nd Lieut. J.
            L. M. Hutchison, patrolled as far as Kliplaat Drift on
            Reit Spruit to communicate with Col. Dartnell's column.

            Two troops A Squadron escorted wagons at 6 a.m. on
            foraging duty in N.W. direction.

  _10th._--B and C Squadrons under Capt. E. A. Maude, with two guns,
            left camp at 5 a.m., and proceeded 12 miles towards
            Morgenlon to meet convoy coming from Uitkijk. Enemy in
            considerable force.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Uitspan to Kalkoenskranz.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Kalkoenskranz to Kaalhoek.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Kaalhoek to St. Helena, crossing
            Assegai River in afternoon.

            Draft of 22 men and boys joined from England.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from St. Helena to Rooikraal.

            Small scattered parties of the enemy were met with, who
            retired. Casualties:--4632 Pte. Horne wounded.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Rooikraal to Marienthal.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Marienthal in an E. direction
            towards Zandbank.

            A Squadron was detached to escort convoys to and from
            Piet Retief and Bergen. Bivouacked at Vakenskop.

  _Feb. 18th._--The regiment marched from Vakenskop to Zandbank.

            Seven men invalided to England.

  _19th._--Two troops C Squadron escorted foraging parties N. and
            N.W. Two troops C Squadron escorted wagons and telegraph
            party S.W. to right bank of Assegai River.

  _20th._--One troop B Squadron escorted refugees, etc., from
            Headquarters Camp to Piet Retief, leaving at 6 a.m.

  _21st._--Half troop C Squadron escorted wagons S.W. to collect
            food-stuffs and wood.

  _28th._--Telegram from the Commander-in-Chief to General
            French:--"Express to the troops under your command my
            admiration of the excellent work they have performed and
            the difficulties they have overcome."

            During the regiment's stay at Zandbank rain fell every
            day. Supplies were scarce, country having been cleared,
            and rivers too swollen to permit convoys coming through.

  _Mar. 2nd._--The regiment marched from Zandbank.

            Bivouacked at Mahamba Malengeni.

  _3rd._--B Squadron escorted foraging wagons to Witkoppies.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Mahamba Malengeni to Witkoppies.

  _8th._--Forty men B Squadron, 80 men C, with 10 and 20 led horses
            respectively, paraded at 5.50 a.m. for reconnaissance.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Witkoppies at 6.55 a.m. to
            Mahamba Malengeni.

  _13th._--Pte. A. Northey invalided to England.

  _17th._--The regiment marched at 6 a.m. to Verner's Store to
            commandeer supplies, and from there to Mahamba Malengeni.

  _22nd._--5 men transferred to South African Constabulary.

  _23rd._--Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley joined from England, and took
            over command of the regiment.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Mahamba Malengeni at 7 a.m., via
            Warren's Store, to Rudolph's Ground, Swaziland. Half B
            Squadron were left at Mahamba in charge of sick horses,
            and also to act as a communicating post between Zandbank
            and Rudolph's Ground.

  _Mar. 25th._--The regiment marched from Rudolph's Ground, via
            Muller's Farm, to Plat Nek. A Squadron, under Capt.
            Feilden, rejoined Headquarters from escorting convoys.

  _27th._--B and C Squadrons with Headquarters marched from Plat Nek,
            S.E., along the Hluit Road to Henwoods.

            A Squadron left to hold Nek and to reconnoitre country
            towards Mahamba and Henwood's Concession.

            C Squadron Greys, one squadron Carabiniers, under command
            of Lieut.-Col. Hippisley, marched at 8 a.m. in the
            direction of the Pongola River in pursuit of enemy, who
            were reported going in that direction having with them
            guns. The enemy crossed the river, leaving one 15-pounder
            field gun with carriage, ammunition wagon, and limber,
            and two pom-poms with ammunition complete, which were
            secured.

            Casualties:--Wounded--3915 Pte. McPherson.

  _29th._--B and C Squadrons with Headquarters marched from Rooirand
            at 7 a.m. to Inkulu.

  _30th._--B and C Squadrons with Headquarters marched from Inkulu to
            Henwood's Store.

  _31st._--Forty men B Squadron under Capt. E. A. Maude (forming part
            of a mixed force under Major Garrett, the Carabiniers)
            marched from Henwood's Store to the neighbourhood of
            Langdrai Drift, capturing there two pom-pom limbers, two
            pom-pom carriages, one field battery limber, 84 rounds
            15-pounder ammunition. This party remained holding the
            drift until the 6th proximo.

  _Apr. 4th._--Fifty (?) men of C Squadron paraded at 5.30 a.m.
            to escort an empty ox convoy from Henwood's Store to Piet
            Retief. The escort was under the command of Major W. C.
            Middleton as far as Plat Nek, at which place he took over
            command of the detachment stationed there.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Henwood's Store to Plat Nek.
            Majors R. H. Adams and J. Crabbie joined from England.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Plat Nek to Rudolph's Ground.

  _Apr. 10th._--The regiment marched from Rudolph's Ground
            towards Mahamba, and bivouacked at Zandbank.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Zandbank at 7 a.m. to Piet
            Retief.

            _London Gazette._--2nd Dragoons: Sergt.-Major Thomas
            Milne Ross to be Quartermaster, with the hon. rank of
            Lieutenant, vice Lieut. P. F. Fleming.

            Two men invalided to England. One man joined from England.

  _13th._--The combined columns of Allenby and Campbell acted as one
            force and was known as Campbell's Column. Lieut.-Col.
            Allenby commanded all the mounted troops, including
            Pom-pom and M. I.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Piet Retief to Idalia, engaging
            enemy about 11.30 a.m. _en route_, the advance and right
            flank guards coming under heavy fire. Enemy was driven
            back.

            Casualties:--Killed--4568 Pte. J. McAdam.

            The dismounted men, who numbered about 180, formed an
            escort to the guns.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Idalia in the direction of
            Stralsund and bivouacked at Springbok Kraal. Sniping was
            kept up by the enemy all day. No casualties.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Springbok Kraal to Spitz Kop.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Spitz Kop. Enemy opened fire
            with guns from front and left flank about 9 a.m., and
            little progress was made for about two hours. The front
            position was then taken and advance continued. No
            casualties. Bivouacked at Reit Vlei.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Reit Vlei. Enemy were located
            by left flank guard about 7.30 a.m. in strong position,
            and who opened with guns and rifle fire. B Squadron under
            Major R. H. Adams took a commanding position, on which
            enemy retired.

            Casualties:--Wounded--Corpl. Sperring.

            Bivouacked at Weltevreden.

            The Commanding Officer announced that Col. Campbell
            expressed his satisfaction at the work done by the
            regiment to-day.

  _Apr. 19th._--The regiment marched from Weltevreden at 7.45
            a.m. to Roodeval. Sniping all day.

  _20th._--The regiment marched from Roodeval to Jan Hendricks
            Fontein. Enemy met with _en route_, who retired before
            advance scouts.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Jan Hendricks Fontein to
            Mooifontein. Enemy attacked right flank guard, were
            driven off. No casualties.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Mooifontein. Strong force of
            enemy made determined attack on rear-guard, which was
            under the command of Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley. The
            enemy advanced to within 100 yards and then retired.

            Casualties:--Wounded--No. 4049 Lance-Corpl. Lawrence,
            4643 Pte. Fraser, 4626 Pte. Clarke. Bivouacked at Klip
            Stapel.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched from Klip Stapel to Boschman's Kop.
            Sniping all day. No casualties.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Boschman's Kop to Vaal Bank.

            Casualties:--Died of wounds--No. 3915 Pte. J. McPherson
            at Charlestown.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Vaal Bank to Pullenshope.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Pullenshope to Eikeboom.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Eikeboom to Middelburg to refit.
            The dismounted men numbered 240.

  _28th._--Extract from _London Gazette_.--Lieut. E. Ussher to be
            Captain, to complete establishment. Dated 4th September,
            1900.

  _29th._--The regiment marched from Middelburg to Oliphant's River
            Station. Dismounted men proceeded to Witbank by rail.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Oliphant's River Station to
            Witbank. Casualties:--Died of disease--No. 3672 Pte. T.
            Finlay, Johannesburg.

  _May 1st._--N.C.O.'s and men transferred to S.A.C. Regiment
            was remounted here.

  _May 3rd._--Patrols sent out to Brug Spruit.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Witbank Station to Leeuwpoort.

            Four men to England for discharge.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Leeuwpoort to Kranspoort.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Kranspoort. Enemy opened fire on
            rear-guards at short range, but on the support coming up
            they retired. Casualties:--Wounded--4447 Lce.-Cpl. Scott,
            died same day. Bivouacked at Zaaihoek.

  _7th, 8th._--The regiment marched from Zaaihoek to Kwars River
            Spruit. A few shots from enemy _en route_. No casualties.
            One troop B Squadron under 2nd Lieut. Parker patrolled to
            Aasvogel Krantz.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Kwars Spruit to Great Oliphants
            Station. No. 3564 Pte. Humphries died of disease at
            Newcastle.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Great Oliphants Station to
            Witbank. No. 3208 Pte. H. Stewart to England for
            discharge.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Witbank. Small parties of the
            enemy were met with, who retired after firing a few shots.

            Bivouacked at Zaaiwater.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Zaaiwater to Kromdraai. Sniping
            at advanced guards _en route_.

  _17th._--Halt.

            All but two days' provisions handed over to Plumer's
            column.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Kromdraai at 6.30 a.m. towards
            Springs. Bivouacked at Nooitgedacht. Some sniping.

  _19th._--The regiment marched from Nooitgedacht to Bloemdale.

  _20th._--The regiment marched from Bloemdale to Springs.

  _21st._--Lieut. W. Long rejoined from England. Draft of 53 N.C.O.'s
            and men joined from England.

  _22nd._--20 N.C.O.'s and men invalided to England.

            Owing to Col. Allenby's illness, Lieut.-Col. Hippisley
            assumed command of the column.

  _May 24th._--The regiment marched from Springs to Witklip.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Witklip to Zeeuwfontein.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Zeeuwfontein to
            Hartebeestfontein.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Hartebeestfontein to
            Middledrift. Sniping.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Middledrift at 7 a.m. to
            Vierfontein.

  _29th._--The regiment marched at 7 a.m. from Vierfontein. The enemy
            attacked the rear-guard, but was driven off. Bivouacked
            at Weltevreden. No casualties.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Weltevreden at 7 a.m. to
            Straffontein. Snipers.

  _31st._--The regiment marched from Straffontein at 7.30 a.m. Enemy
            located on left flank about 10 a.m., but after exchanging
            a few shots retired. No casualties. Bivouacked at Van
            Dyks Put. On arriving in camp regiment ordered to pursue
            reported wagons of enemy. One prisoner caught and 30 oxen.

  _June 1st._--Van Dyks Put.

  _2nd._--The regiment marched from Van Dyks Put to Hartebeestfontein.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Hartebeestfontein to Wilge River
            Station.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Wilge River Station to Rooipoort.
            Left flank attacked by a few Boers as we were going into
            camp.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Rooipoort to Witpoort.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Witpoort to Donkerhoek.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Donkerhoek to Arcadia, east side
            of Pretoria. Major Middleton left the regiment to take
            over command of a remount depot at Durban.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Arcadia to Daspoort. Col. Allenby
            resumed command of column.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Daspoort to Reitfontein.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Reitfontein to Sheepoort.

  _June 12th._--The regiment marched from Sheepoort to Hekpoort.
            Snipers on the right.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Hekpoort to Thorndale.

  _14th._--The regiment marched at 5.30 a.m. to cover the return of
            the Carabiniers from Rustenburg through Breedts Nek.
            On arriving at the Nek the enemy were found to be in
            possession, and opened with heavy rifle fire on the
            advance scouts. A party under command of Lieut. J. L. M.
            Hutchison succeeded in driving them out. The regiment
            then returned to bivouac.

            Major H. J. Scobell is granted local rank of
            Lieut.-Colonel in South Africa whilst commanding 1st
            Regiment Brabant's Horse, dated 1/12/00; Lieut. A. Lawson
            seconded for service on the Staff, dated 11/9/00; Capt.
            A. D. Miller seconded for service on the Staff, dated
            10/7/00; Major (now Lieut.-Col.) H. J. Scobell to be
            Brevet Lieut.-Colonel, dated 29/11/00.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Thorndale to Zandfontein.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Zandfontein to Vlakfontein.

  _18th._--The regiment marched to Kleinfontein.

  _19th._--Kleinfontein. Small parties of enemy attacked day outposts
            about 11 miles west. Were driven off; no casualties.

            Two squadrons R.S.G. out clearing farms, were sniped;
            no casualties.

  _20th._--The regiment, accompanied by two companies Inniskilling
            Fusiliers and two guns under Lieut.-Col. Hippisley,
            cleared the valley to the north of camp (Kleinfontein),
            and returned at nightfall. Small parties of the enemy met
            with.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Kleinfontein at 3 a.m. Squadrons
            were detached for the purpose of surrounding party of the
            enemy reported to be in the locality. The nature of the
            ground made the operations very difficult. The following
            was the result:--

            2 Boers captured, 3 taken prisoners, 400 cattle, 1,000
            sheep and goats, 20 donkeys and mules, 16 wagons
            destroyed or taken.

            Casualties:--Wounded--4752 Pte. Aird, 3147 Pte. Glen.

            Bivouacked at Groenfontein.

  _June 22nd._--The regiment marched from Groenfontein to
            Klepkraus.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched from Klepkraus to Ventersdorp. Held
            by S. W. B., drew three days' provisions.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Ventersdorp to Klipfontein.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Klipfontein to Brakspruit.

  _26th._--Two men to England.

  _27th to 28th._--Midnight. Marched to hills S.W. of camp.
            Hamilton's column moving up from opposite side. 9 Boers
            captured. Returned Brakspruit.

  _29th._--Halted Brakspruit.

  _30th._--Marched to Lapfontein.

  _July 1st._--The regiment marched from Lapfontein to
            Nooitgedacht (492).

  _2nd._--The regiment marched to Klipplate Drift.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Klipplate Drift to Ventersdorp.

  _4th._--Bivouacked noon Modderfontein. Moved off again 7 p.m.
            to hold drifts; 8 p.m. three companies Inniskilling
            Fusiliers with two troops Greys moved to reported Boer
            position, arriving 5th.

  _5th._--2.30 a.m. Inniskilling Fusiliers going up with fixed
            bayonets. Boers, however, had recently left. One
            Boer captured by C Squadron in the morning. Camped
            Varkenskraal on the Mooi River.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Varkenskraal to Holfontein.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Holfontein to Vlaksplaats, near
            Krugersdorp. Small parties of the enemy met with _en
            route_. Five horses captured. No casualties.

  _8th and 9th._--Halted Vlaksplaats.

  _9th and 10th._--Midnight. Col. Hippisley, with A and C
            Squadrons Greys and two squadrons Carabiniers, marched
            off midnight, captured 13 Boers. Remainder moved 4 a.m.
            Whole force bivouacked Vlaksplaats.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Vlaksplaats. Some supplies and
            3 horses were captured from the enemy, who fired a few
            shots and retired. Bivouacked at Zeekoehoek.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Zeekoehoek to Hekpoort.

  _July 12th._--A and B Squadrons, 100 strong, with two squadrons
            Carabiniers, howitzer and pom-pom. Marched at 7 a.m.
            for reconnaissance. Enemy and laager located at foot
            of Hekpoort: nearly all their wagons were destroyed by
            shellfire. Squadrons returned to camp.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Hekpoort to Dwarsvlei.

  _14th._--Halted Dwarsvlei.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Dwarsvlei to Tweefontein.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Tweefontein to Kromdraai,
            clearing farms _en route_. C Squadron under the command
            of Major J. Crabbie escorted convoy to Krugersdorp for
            supplies.

  _17th._--The regiment marched at 8 a.m., and were engaged all day
            in clearing the Kromdraai and neighbouring Kloofs.

  _18th._--Escort under Major J. Crabbie returned with convoy from
            Krugersdorp. A Squadron under the command of Capt.
            Feilden escorted convoy to Krugersdorp for supplies.

  _19th._--The regiment marched from Kromdraai to Vlakplaats.

  _20th and 21st._--Vlakplaats. A Squadron under the command of
            Capt. C. W. M. Feilden returned with convoy from
            Krugersdorp.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Vlakplaats via Zeekoehoek to
            Thorndale. Several snipers. No casualties.

  _23rd._--C Squadron under command of Major J. Crabbie, 100 strong,
            for reconnaissance. Strong force of the enemy located
            about 4 miles east of camp.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Thorndale at 6 a.m. for Wagonpad
            Spruit. Sniping by the enemy all day.

  _25th._--A and C Squadrons were engaged in clearing farms.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Wagonpad Spruit. On the regiment
            marching, an ambush was left on the old bivouac ground,
            composed of a few men from each squadron, supported by C
            Squadron under the command of Major J. Crabbie.

            Small parties of the enemy came on to the ground to
            secure what was left as regards pieces of biscuits,
            etc. Fire was opened on them with the following
            results:--Killed 2, prisoners 7, three of whom were
            wounded. No casualties.

            Bivouacked at Doorn Kloof.

  _July 27th._--A and C Squadrons under Major Crabbie engaged in
            clearing farms.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Doorn Kloof at 7 a.m. Enemy
            opened fire on advance scouts at short range and then
            retired. Several horses killed. No casualties in men.

  _29th._--The regiment marched from Doorn Kloof to Zeekoehoek.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Zeekoehoek at 6.30 a.m. to
            Boschfontein.

  _31st._--A and C Squadrons, under the command of Lieut.-Col. W. H.
            Hippisley, left camp at 5.30 a.m., for reconnaissance. No
            enemy.

  _Aug. 1st and 2nd._--Boschfontein.

  _3rd._--All mounted troops except A Squadron R.S.G. escorted Col.
            Kekewich's convoy through Oliphant's Nek.

  _4th._--Gifts received from the following were distributed:--

            The Rt. Hon. Walter Long's Fund, Capt. Meysey Thompson,
            Mr. John Masterson, Perth.

            Halted Boschfontein.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Boschfontein. Took up a position
            covering the right of Col. Kekewich's convoy, which was
            moving from Nauwpoort to Oliphant's Nek, and rejoined
            column at Thorndale.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Thorndale for Doornkloof.

  _7th._--Operations in connection with Col. Kekewich's column,
            commencing at Breedt's Nek and ending at Damhoek.

            _London Gazette._--5th Lancers--Major and Brevet
            Lieut.-Col. H. J. Scobell, from 2nd Dragoons, to be
            Lieut.-Col., vice J. F. M. Fawcett, on half-pay, on
            account of ill-health.

            Capt. W. F. Collins is seconded for service as an
            Adjutant of Imperial Yeomanry in Great Britain.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Doornkloof to Hekpoort. No. 4755
            Pte. R. Graham died of disease at Johannesburg.

            News received that the column under Col. H. J. Scobell
            inflicted heavy loss on Commandant Lategan in Cape Colony.

  _9th._--The regiment marched at 7 a.m. to Damhoek, which was
            strongly held by the enemy, who lost one killed and one
            wounded.

            Bivouacked at Nooitgedacht.

  _Aug. 10th._--The regiment marched from Nooitgedacht at 7 a.m.
            to Damhoek.

            Enemy were again attacked and driven from position, with
            the loss of 9 prisoners, 9 rifles, 400 rounds S.A.A., and
            2 carts.

  _11th._--A and B Squadrons, with pom-pom, under command of Capt.
            C. W. M. Feilden, marched at 7.30 a.m., taking with them
            four days' supplies and all empty supply wagons, acting
            under General Barton's orders.

  _12th._--C Squadron, with three days' supplies, formed part of a
            force under Major Butler, Carabiniers, which marched west
            at 5 p.m.

  _16th._--A Squadron, with one troop of B, under command of C. W. M.
            Feilden, occupied Nooitgedacht Pass and Yeomanry Hill, to
            protect South African Constabulary building block-houses.
            Returned to camp 5.30 p.m.

  _17th._--One troop of A Squadron, under Lieut. J. L. M. Hutchison,
            escorted wagons to Scheerpoort, and returned to camp the
            following day.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Damhoek to Grootplaats.

  _19th._--The regiment marched from Grootplaats to Reitfontein.

            The regiment marched from Reitfontein at 10.15 p.m.
            through Zilikats Nek to Mamagalies Kraal.

  _21st._--B and C Squadrons left camp at 7 a.m., under command of
            Col. Allenby, to communicate with Col. Kekewich, and
            returned at sunset.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from Mamagalies Kraal to Beeste
            Kraal; 16 of the enemy surrendered _en route_, with arms,
            of which only two were mounted.

  _23rd._--A and B Squadrons and half C Squadron marched, under
            Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley, for reconnaissance. No enemy.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Beeste Kraal to Bulhoek.

  _25th._--The regiment marched from Bulhoek to Kaffirs Kraal.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Kaffirs Kraal to Waaikraal.

            The regiment marched from Waaikraal to Zwartkoppies.

  _Aug. 28th._--The regiment marched from Zwartkoppies to
            Roodekoppies.

  _29th._--The regiment marched from Roodekoppies to Rustenburg.

            Thirteen men to England.

  _30th._--Halted Rustenburg.

  _31st._--The regiment marched from Rustenburg about 12 noon to
            Boschoek.

  _Sept. 1st._--The regiment marched from Boschoek at 7 a.m. to
            Rhenoster Doorn.

  _2nd._--The regiment marched from Rhenoster Doorn at 6.30 a.m. for
            Rhenosterfontein. Small parties of the enemy met with _en
            route_. One prisoner taken. No casualties.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Rhenosterfontein at 6 a.m.
            Parties of enemy concealed in thick scrub kept up sniping
            all day. A party of C Squadron, which was detached to
            bring in cattle, came under a heavy fire; 350 head of
            cattle were secured.

            Casualties:--Wounded--4727 Pte. W. Lauder. Missing--3886
            Tptr. C. Lidsey. C. of I. held subsequently declared this
            man to have been killed in action. Has never been heard
            of.

            Bivouacked at Koedoesfontein.

  _4th._--B and C Squadrons, under Col. W. H. Hippisley, marched at 8
            a.m. on reconnaissance to the north. 130 head of cattle
            captured. No casualties.

            No. 3410 Pte. J. McGee died of disease at Reitfontein.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Koedoesfontein at 7 a.m., via
            Megatos Nek to Kraaihoek.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Kraaihoek to Rustenburg.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Rustenburg at 7 a.m. for
            reconnaissance. Enemy's laager at Schaap's Kraal located
            about 4.30 a.m. At daybreak it was rushed, and everything
            taken. The captures were:--Two killed, 22 prisoners, one
            of which was wounded, 30 rifles, 5,000 rounds S.A.A., 10
            wagons, 4 carts, 7 ponies, 250 head of cattle.

            Casualties:--Killed--4086 Sergt. Clements, 4346 Pte.
            Baker.

            Bivouacked at Roodes Koppies.

            Col. Allenby expressed his satisfaction at the work done
            by the regiment on this day.

  _Sept. 8th._--The regiment marched from Roodeskoppies to
            Noehuters.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Noehuters to Zandfontein.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Zandfontein to Kameeldrift.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Kameeldrift for Pretoria.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Pretoria to Silverton.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Silverton to Pretoria Railway
            Station, and entrained for Dundee (Natal).

  _17th and 18th._--On train from Pretoria to Dundee.

  _19th._--The regiment marched from Dundee at 11 a.m. to De Jagers
            Drift.

  _22nd._--The regiment marched from De Jagers Drift to Vants Drift.

  _24th._--The regiment crossed the Buffalo River at 6 a.m.

  _25th._--C Squadron under Major J. Crabbie marched at 8 a.m. for
            reconnaissance, and returned about 5 p.m. No sign of
            enemy.

  _27th._--The regiment formed part of a force under Gen. Bruce
            Hamilton, which marched from Vants Drift at 12 noon to
            the relief of Fort Itala, arriving there about 4.30 a.m.
            28th. The enemy had retired from Itala. Small party left
            to hold Rorke's Drift.

  _29th._--Took up and entrenched position west of Itala.

  _30th._--Marched to Babanango.

  _Oct. 1st._--The regiment marched from Babanango Spruit at 6
            a.m. to Dliep Kloof.

  _2nd._--The regiment marched from Dliep Kloof at 8 a.m. to Fort
            Prospect.

            Fifty men C Squadron under 2nd Lieut. C. R. Pawson
            marched at 5 a.m., escorted empty wagons to Melmoth, and
            rejoined with supplies the 4th prox.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Fort Prospect at 9.30 a.m. to
            Entombaneni.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Entombaneni at 7 a.m. to Divars
            River.

  _Oct. 5th._--The regiment marched from Divars River at 4 a.m.
            to Tuklazati.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Tuklazati at 5 a.m. to Sotskloof.

  _7th._--The regiment, with one gun, under command of Lieut.-Col.
            W. H. Hippisley, marched from Sotskloof at 6 a.m. to
            Kromellem Bog, and took over convoy, and rejoined column
            on 9th.

            Capt. E. A. Maude appointed Assistant Provost-Marshal to
            Allenby's column from 4th inst. inclusive.

  _8th._--Kromellem Bog.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Kromellem Bog at 5 a.m., and
            rejoined column at Nooitgezein.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Nooitgezein at 6 a.m. to
            Ekuhlengeni.

  _11th._--The regiment marched from Ekuhlengeni at 6 a.m. Very cold
            and heavy rains. Thirteen horses died of exposure during
            night.

            Bivouacked Taverner's Rust.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Taverner's Rust at 5 a.m. to
            Metselfontein. Ten horses died from exposure during the
            night; very cold and wet.

  _14th._--A Squadron marched at 4 a.m. to escort the G.O.C.
            for Vryheid. When G.O.C. was well on his way, the
            squadron halted and waited for the remainder regiment.
            Headquarters with B and C Squadrons marched from
            Metselfontein at 10 a.m. to Vaalbank.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Vaalbank to Welgevoden.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Welgevoden to Vryheid. Sick
            horses sent to De Jagers Drift, under Lieut. Hon. A. M.
            Henley.

  _20th._--The following force under Major C. W. M. Feilden marched
            from Vryheid at 7 a.m., escorted a convoy to Paul
            Pietersburg for General Walter Kitchener, and rejoined
            the regiment at Standerton on 29th:--A Squadron--60 men,
            Lieut. J. L. M. Hutchison, 2nd Lieut. E. H. Bonham. B
            Squadron--65 men, Lieut. J. Feilden,

            2nd Lieut. C. T. Parker. C Squadron--75 men, Lieut. C. R.
            Pawson.

  _Oct. 22nd._--The regiment marched from Vryheid to Bembeas Kop.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched from Bembeas Kop to De Jagers Drift.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from De Jagers Drift to Dundee.

  _25th._--The regiment entrained at Dundee for Standerton.

  _29th._--_London Gazette._--Capt. C. W. M. Feilden to be Major,
            vice Brevet Lieut.-Col. H. J. Scobell, promoted into 5th
            Lancers; dated 23/8/01.

            Lieut. C. P. Foster resigns his commission on account of
            ill-health.

            The undermentioned Lieutenants to be Captains:

            A. G. Seymour, vice W. F. Collins, seconded.

            Hon. A. J. M. St. Clair (Master of Sinclair), vice C. W.
            M. Feilden, promoted.

            The undermentioned 2nd Lieutenants to be Lieutenants:

            C. R. Pawson, vice A. G. Seymour.

            H. C. T. Parker, vice Hon. A. J. M. St. Clair.

            Hon. A. M. Henley, vice C. P. Foster.

  _31st._--The regiment formed part of a force under Gen. G.
            Hamilton, which marched from Standerton at 2 p.m. towards
            Trichardsfontein to the relief of Col. Benson's column.

            Enemy had retired.

  _Nov. 3rd._--The regiment marched from Trichardsfontein to New
            Denmark Farm.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from New Denmark Farm to Standerton.

            Telegram from Lord Kitchener to General G.
            Hamilton:--"Please tell all troops who marched under your
            command from Standerton, that I was much pleased at their
            rapid start and the very good march they made."

            _London Gazette._--To be Companions of the Distinguished
            Service Order:

            Major C. W. M. Feilden, Capt. and Adjt. E. Ussher.

            To be Brevet Lieut.-Col., Major W. C. Middleton.

            To be Brevet Major, Capt. E. A. Maude.

            Granted Distinguished Conduct Medal:

            R. S. M. F. Casswell, 4172 Sergt. A. J. Pott, 3939
            Lce.-Cpl. J. Sweeting, and 4387 S. S. G. Banks.

  _Nov. 8th._--The regiment marched from Standerton to
            Eensgevonden.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Eensgevonden to Bosjesspruit.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Bosjesspruit to Trichardsfontein.

  _11th._--Reconnaissance, returned Trichardsfontein.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Trichardsfontein for Rooipoort.

  _13th._--The regiment marched at 5 a.m. for reconnaissance; several
            scattered parties of the enemy met with, who, after
            firing on the advance scouts, retired. On returning, the
            enemy followed and attacked the rear-guard. Casualties, 6
            horses killed. Returned to bivouac at 7.30 p.m. One dead
            Boer picked up.

  _14th._--Clearing operations under Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley by
            all details left in camp on 13th. Advance scouts came
            under fire about 3 miles from camp, enemy then retired.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Rooipoort to Trichardsfontein.

  _16th._--The regiment halted at Trichardsfontein.

  _17th to 20th._--Trichardsfontein.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Trichardsfontein at 6 a.m. to
            Bethal.

  _22nd._--Forces divided for future operations into lines A, B, C.

            A, fighting force, with no wheeled transport;

            B, Cape carts and 2 wagons per regiment;

            C, Heavy transport.

            A line marched 7 p.m. Marched all night.

  _23rd._--Enemy located at daybreak, who retired without firing.
            Captures, 60 head of cattle, 11 ponies. No casualties.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Tweefontein at 6 a.m. to
            Knapdaar (38).

  _25th._--The regiment marched to Bethal (4 ponies captured).

  _28th._--A and B Squadrons with 10 led horses formed part of a
            force under Col. Allenby which marched at 7 p.m. for
            reconnaissance.

            No enemy. Returned to bivouac at 8 a.m. 29th.

  _Nov. 30th._--Bethal.

  _Dec. 1st._--The regiment marched from Bethal to Schurvekop.

  _2nd._--The regiment marched from Schurvekop at 7 a.m. to Knapdaar.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Knapdaar at 7 a.m. to
            Boschmansfontein.

  _4th._--A and B Squadrons out on reconnaissance. Located enemy. 4
            horses wounded.

  _5th and 6th._--No move. Advance was fired upon by a few
            snipers _en route_. One horse captured. No casualties.

  _7th._--The regiment marched from Boschmansfontein at 8.55 a.m. to
            Wilmansrust. 26 head of cattle and 80 sheep captured. No
            casualties.

  _8th._--Marched 7 a.m. to Middelkraal (298).

  _9th._--B Squadron leaves with empty wagons to refit at Middelburg.

  _10th._--The regiment marched from Middelkraal at 5 a.m. Enemy
            encountered about 12 noon, who opened heavy fire and
            then retired, leaving their cattle and wagons, which
            were secured. Capture: 480 head of cattle, 7 wagons. No
            casualties. Bivouacked at Onverwacht.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Mooifontein at 8 a.m. to
            Tweedraai. Party of the enemy located _en route_ in
            farmhouse, which was rushed. Captures: 8 prisoners, 5
            ponies, 2 Cape carts.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Tweedraai to Roodebloem.

  _14th._--B squadron rejoined with convoy.

            The regiment marched from Roodebloem at 4 a.m. to
            Steenkool Spruit. No. 2508 Pte. J. Neal died of disease
            at Standerton.

  _15th._--The regiment marched from Steenkool Spruit at 7 a.m. to
            Roodebloem. C Squadron under Major Crabbie formed part
            of a force under Major Butler which marched at 7 a.m.
            Enemy located at farm, which was surrounded. Captured 33
            prisoners, including Major Pretorius, Staats Artillery,
            50 ponies, 100 head of cattle.

            No casualties. Squadron rejoined regiment at Brug Spruit.

  _Dec. 18th._--Marched to Stenkool Spruit.

  _19th._--A and B Squadrons marched from Stenkool Spruit to Brug
            Spruit.

  _20th._--3946 Pte. T. Noble accidentally wounded.

  _24th._--Three of the enemy with ponies and arms surrendered to
            outposts.

  _26th._--The regiment left Col. Allenby's force (being replaced
            by 13th Hussars), and marched from Brug Spruit to
            Klipfontein, which was fortified.

  _27th._--A and B Squadrons under Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley left
            camp at 7.30 a.m. for reconnaissance. Small party of
            enemy located, were pursued and captured. Captured: 4
            prisoners, 2 Cape carts, 4 ponies. Returned to bivouac
            2.30 p.m.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Klipfontein at 6 a.m. Strong
            force of the enemy located about midday, who opened
            with heavy rifle fire. Casualties:--Killed--4643 L. C.
            Fraser, 3674 Pte. Gibson, 4563 Mitchell, 4879 Hastings,
            4764 Humphries. Wounded--Corpls. Scott, Griffiths, Ptes.
            Cockburn, Sharp, Roy, Kerr, Lindsay, Bruce, McKenzie,
            McKissock, McLeod, Parton. Enemy's loss unknown.
            Bivouacked Bronkhurst Spruit.

  _31st._--The regiment marched from Bronkhurst Spruit at 2 p.m. to
            Elands River. No. 4831 Pte. Bruce died of wounds received
            on the 30th.

               CASUALTIES IN HORSES (+During 1901+).

          _Killed, Died, etc._         |           _Received._
                                       |
  Killed in action                 50  |  From remount depots      1639
  Destroyed                       367  |  Captured from enemy        66
  Died                            259  |
  Captured by enemy                12  |
  Returned to sick horse depots  1311  |
                                 ----  |                           ----
                                 1999  |                           1705
                                 ====  |                           ====

                      CASUALTIES IN OFFICERS AND MEN.

                    Officers.   N.C.O.'s and Men.

  Killed in action     --              10
  Died of wounds       --               6
  Died of disease      --               8
  Wounded               1              30
  Captured             --              --

       *       *       *       *       *

1902.

  _Jan. 1st._--Elands River.

            5034 Pte. R. Cochrane died of wounds, Pretoria.

  _2nd._--Elands River. Lieut. G. G. Middleton rejoined from England.
            (5th).

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Elands River to Bapsfontein.

  _4th._--The regiment marched from Bapsfontein to Springs to refit.
            The regiment formed part of a force as under:--

            5th Dragoon Guards, Greys, 2 guns 66th Battery.

            The whole under the command of General G. Hamilton to
            operate between the blockhouse line and railway.

            The regiment marched from Springs to Witklip.

  _5th._--One troop C Squadron under Lieut. G. G. Middleton marched
            at 6 a.m. in accordance with instructions issued. The
            party took a helio and kept up communication with camp.

  _6th._--Halt, Springs, 6th, 7th to 13th inclusive.

  _7th._--4962 Pte. R. Brooks died of disease Pretoria.

  _14th._--Marched 4 a.m. to Witklip (70).

  _15th._--Halt Witklip.

  _16th._--Marched 5 a.m. to Vlakvarkfontein. 10 p.m. A and B
            Squadrons under Major Adams proceed to Kroomdraai (100).

  _17th._--Remainder of column marched 5 a.m. to Kroomdraai (100).

  _18th._--Halted Kroomdraai (100).

  _19th._--Marched 7 p.m. till 1 a.m. on.

  _20th._--A and C Squadrons formed part of a force under
            Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley which marched at 7 p.m. for
            reconnaissance. Small party of the enemy met with, who
            retired. Bivouacked at Middelburg. No casualties.

            When A and C Squadrons R.S.G. with two squadrons of 5th
            D.G.'s pushed on; remainder moved daybreak; whole camping
            Middelburg (487).

  _Jan. 21st._--The regiment marched from Middelburg at 6 a.m. to
            Springs; a few snipers met with _en route_. No casualties.

  _23rd._--Regiment marched from Springs to Boschmans Kop.

  _24th._--The regiment marched from Boschmans Kop to Leeuwkop.

            Party of the enemy attacked right flank guard, were
            driven off. Casualties:--Wounded--3803 Sergt. D. Coutts,
            2 horses killed.

  _26th._--The regiment marched from Leeuwkop at 7.25 p.m. for
            reconnaissance. Party of enemy located at farm at
            daybreak, who retired. Returned to bivouac at Leeuwkop
            26th.

            Casualties:--Wounded--4535 Sergt. R. Currie, 4607 Cpl.
            Telford, 4497 Pte. C. Quinn; 3 horses killed.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Leeuwkop to Welgevonden.

  _31st._--The regiment marched from Welgevonden to Witklipbank.

  _Feb. 1st._--The regiment marched from Witklipbank to Witpoort.

  _2nd._--The regiment marched from Witpoort to Straffontein.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched for reconnaissance. Enemy located
            just leaving farm, about 4 miles from camp. They were
            pursued and the following captures made:--16 prisoners, 2
            surrendered, 300 head of cattle, 3 carts, 20 ponies. No
            casualties.

  _4th._--A and B Squadrons under Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley marched
            at 8 p.m. for reconnaissance. No enemy. Joined remainder
            of regiment at Straffontein.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Straffontein to Witklip.

  _7th._--The regiment marched at 9 p.m. for reconnaissance. No
            enemy. Bivouacked at Witpoort 10th.

            3946 Pte. Noble died of wounds (accidentally received) at
            Pretoria.

  _9th and 10th._--Marched to Witklipbank from Witpoort. Two
            Boers captured.

  _11th._--Marched 6 p.m. to Waaikraal (240).

  _12th._--Reconnaissance in conjunction with Col. Wing. No Boers.
            Returned Waaikraal.

  _Feb. 13th._--Fifty men of C Squadron under Lieut. E. H. Bonham
            marched at 5 a.m. and escorted sick horses and wagons to
            Bronkhurst Spruit. Returned with supplies on 15th.

  _16th._--The regiment marched from Waaikraal at 6.30 a.m. to
            Reitkuil.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Reitkuil at 8.15 p.m. to
            Leeuwkop.

            3645 Sergt. Head died of disease at Standerton.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Leeuwkop at 6 a.m.

            Strong party of enemy located in a laager by advance
            scouts under Lieut. D. McCombie. Attack not being ordered
            at once by Gen. Hamilton, enemy inspanned and took up a
            strong position. A Squadron with one squadron 5th Dragoon
            Guards were ordered to attack, under Major C. W. M.
            Feilden.

            The attack not being supported by the remainder of the
            column, the squadron 5th Dragoon Guards were forced to
            retire, and A Squadron suffered severely in extricating
            itself, with the following casualties:--

            Killed--Lieut. J. F. Rhodes, 4225 Sergt. Glen, 4237 Pte.
            Cruickshank. Wounded--Capt. and Adjt. E. Ussher, Major
            C. W. M. Feilden, D.S.O., Ptes. 4749 Coffield, 4253 D.
            Ritchie, 4818 G. Welsh, 3955 E. Gray, 4709 R. Bell, 3375
            D. Beatson.

            Enemy estimated at 500. The whole force then retired and
            bivouacked at Nigel.

  _20th._--Major C. W. M. Feilden, D.S.O., died of wounds; 3575 Pte.
            Beatson died of wounds. The regiment marched from Nigel
            at 6.30 a.m. to Springs. Capt. and Adjt. E. Ussher died
            of wounds.

  _23rd._--The regiment marched at 11 p.m. for reconnaissance. No
            enemy. Returned to bivouac.

  _25th._--Civil Surgeon J. S. Clark attached to regiment.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Springs to Goodhoop.

  _28th._--The regiment marched from Goodhoop to Witklip.

  _Mar. 2nd._--The regiment marched from Witklip to Grootfontein.

  _3rd._--The regiment marched from Grootfontein to Springs.

  _Mar. 4th._--4880 Pte. W. Reid died of disease at Germiston.

  _5th._--The regiment marched from Springs at 1.30 p.m. A few
            snipers met with _en route_. No casualties.

  _6th._--The regiment marched from Vischkuil to Leeuwkop.

  _7th._--A and C Squadrons under command of Major E. A. Maude
            marched at 4.45 a.m. for reconnaissance. No enemy.
            Returned to bivouac.

  _8th._--The regiment marched from Leeuwkop to Welgevonden.

  _9th._--The regiment marched from Welgevonden to Springs.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Springs to Boksburg.

  _13th._--The regiment marched from Boksburg to Klip River Station.

  _14th._--The regiment marched from Klip River Station at 5 a.m. for
            reconnaissance. No enemy.

  _17th._--The regiment marched from Klip River Station to Boksburg.

  _18th._--The regiment marched from Boksburg to Springs.

  _19th._--The regiment marched from Springs to Boksburg.

  _20th._--The regiment marched from Boksburg to Kaalfontein.

  _21st._--The regiment marched from Kaalfontein to Irene.

  _22nd._--The regiment was employed reconnoitring the country
            and protecting South African Constabulary building
            blockhouses. No casualties.

  _Apr. 17th._--The regiment marched from Irene at 6.30 a.m. to
            Witpoort to take part in a drive to Balmoral connecting
            up with Col. Lawley's column on right, S.A.C. on left.

  _18th._--Drive continued from Witpoort 6.30 a.m.; held line near
            Bronkhurst Spruit.

  _19th._--Drive continued at 6.30 a.m. Camped Klipeiland.

  _20th._--Marched to Balmoral.

  _20th to 23rd._--The regiment marched from Balmoral at 7.45
            a.m. to take part in a drive to Heidelburg. Bivouacked
            Boschkop.

  _24th._--The drive was continued from Boschkop at 7 a.m. to Koffe
            Spruit. Major J. Crabbie to England.

  _25th._--4981 Pte. Hood died of exposure.

  _26th._--Driving. S. Regiment holding front of 3,900 yards at night
            near Wolvefontein (460). Trenches and wire along whole
            front.

  _Apr. 27th._--The drive continued from Koffe Spruit at 6.30
            a.m. to Vlakfontein.

  _29th._--The drive was continued from Vlakfontein at 6.30 a.m. and
            concluded at Heidelburg. No enemy.

  _30th._--The regiment marched from Heidelburg to Klip River Station.

  _May 1st._--The regiment marched from Klip River Station to
            Boksburg.

  _2nd to 11th._--The regiment marched from Boksburg to Springs.

            Lieut. S. J. Hardy joined from England.

            Lieut. J. M. F. Sprot joined from England.

            Orders received for regiment to join troops under General
            French in Cape Colony.

  _12th._--The regiment marched from Springs to Elandsfontein, handed
            in horses and entrained for Rosmead, Cape Colony, at 7
            p.m.

  _13th._--Train.

  _14th._--Train.

  _15th._--Rosmead. Detrained and took over 402 horses.

  _18th and 19th._--Rosmead.

  _20th._--The regiment entrained at Rosmead for Tarkastad.

  _22nd to 26th._--Tarkastad; 24th got 120 more horses.

  _27th._--The regiment marched from Tarkastad to Maraisburg.

  _28th to 31st._--Maraisburg.

  _June 1st._--Telegram from C.S.O. to General French:--

"+Peace Signed Last Night.+"

                 CASUALTIES IN HORSES +from 1st Jan. to
                           31st May, 1902+.

           _How disposed of._          |           _Received._
                                       |
  Destroyed                        45  |  Remount depot            1285
  Killed                           21  |  Captured                    3
  Died                             47  |
  Captured                          2  |
  S. H. Depots                    416  |
  _Remount Depot_: Elandsfontein  382  |
                                  ---  |                           ----
                                  913  |                           1288
                                  ===  |                           ====

                      CASUALTIES IN MEN AND OFFICERS.

                    Officers.   N.C.O.'s and Men.

  Killed in action      1               2
  Died of wounds        2               1
  Died of disease      --               5
  Wounded              --               9
  Captured             --              --

                   TOTAL CASUALTIES DURING THE CAMPAIGN.

                    Officers.   N.C.O.'s and Men.

  Died at sea          --               1
  Killed in action      2              20
  Died of wounds        4              11
  Died of disease       1              35
  Wounded               4              82
                      ---             ---
                       11             149
                      ===             ===

The Regiment marched from Rosmead on 17/6/02 via Middelburg, Graffe
Reinet, and Aberdeen to Beaufort West, arriving 3/7/02.

Lieut.-Col. W. H. Hippisley proceeded to England on 16/6/02 on
relinquishing command of the Regiment.

The Reservists serving with the Regiment proceeded to England for
demobilisation on the 1/8/02.

Col. H. J. Scobell gazetted to command of the Regiment from 2/8/02.

The Regiment marched from Beaufort West on 8/8/02 to Victoria West,
arriving on the 12/8/02.

The Regiment marched from Victoria West on 10/9/02 via Beaufort West,
Matjesfontein, Worcester, and Paarl, to Stellenbosch (Remount Loop),
arriving 6/10/02.


UNIFORM AND ARMS.

In February, 1683, General Dalzell, "finding that he cannot be provided
in this kingdom with as much cloth of one colour as will be clothes to
the regiment of dragoons," obtained from the Privy Council of Scotland
a licence permitting the cloth manufacturing company at Newmills "to
import 2,536 ells of stone-grey cloth from England, for clothing the
said regiment of dragoons."

The men wore iron helmets and very high boots.

Each trooper seems to have been armed with a matchlock musket and a
bayonet, and wore a collar of bandoliers. There were, however, twelve
men in each troop not thus armed, but carrying halberds and pistols.
These same twelve probably also carried hand grenades.

By an order dated February 21st, 1687, Dragoons were ordered to have
"snaphanse musquets, strapt, with bright barrels of three foote eight
inches long, cartouche boxes, bayonets, granado pouches, bucketts, and
hammer-hatchetts."

The following is from a contemporary MS. belonging to the Regiment:--

  "Major Agnew's Troop is D. for Camp Accoutrements in the year 1704.

  To 133  ells of Linning for 38 Dragoon shirts.
      45  ditto for necks.
      48½ ells musline.
       8      "   sylks.
       8  hatchets.
      48  suit of furrage & caps.
     210  ells whyte and bleu lining for Dragoon frocks.
      48  cocades.
      48  shoe buckels."

[Illustration: +From a Coloured Drawing in the British Museum, dated
1742.+]

      +Inventar of the Cloathes and Accoutrements to be furnished
         the Royall Scotes Dragoones for the Campaigne 1706.+

  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |          |Cloackes.
  |          |   |Coates.
  |          |   |   |Waist Coates.
  |          |   |   |   |Breeches.
  |          |   |   |   |   |Gloves.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |Bootes and Spurres.
  |October   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Saidles.
  |1705      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Steerop Leathers and Irones.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Breeckets and Strapes.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Hulsters and Strapes.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Girthes.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Maell Pilleomes.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Pairs of
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Cloack
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |Strapes.
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |Att       |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Gorcum    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |in the    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Great     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Casque    |   |   |   |   |   |   | 23| 39| 32| 13| 38| 96| 30|
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |In the    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Little    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Casque    |   |   |   |   |   |   |  7|   |   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |In the    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |paymasters|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |qrs.      |  6|  7|  7|  7|   |   | 26| 11| 43| 60|   | 11|   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |To be     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |sent      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |from      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |England   |275|366|366|366|373|373| 94|100| 75| 77|112| 43|120|
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |Houtboyes |  5|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |    Totall|286|373|373|373|373|373|150|150|150|150|150|150|150|
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |          |Brydlehead stealles and Reynes.
  |          |   |Curple and Tees.
  |          |   |   |Houseing and Capes.
  |October   |   |   |   |Hattes.
  |1705      |   |   |   |   |Buff shoulder sword and sabrentash beltes.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |New Granader Caps.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |ditto shoulder belts.
  |          |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |ditto sword beltes.
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |Att       |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Gorcum    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |in the    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Great     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Casque    | 32| 32|   |   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |In the    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Little    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |Casque    |160|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |In the    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |paymasters|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |qrs.      |  3|143|   |  5| 37|  5|  5|  3|
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |To be     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |sent      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |from      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  |England   | 98|118|373|   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |Houtboyes |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
  |    Totall|293|293|373|   |   |   |   |   |
  +----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

+Notta.+--Cloackes for the six old troopes; Coates, &c., for all the
eight troopes; Saidles, 20 to each of the six old troopes, and 15 to
each of the 2 new troopes. Brydles, head stealls and Reynes, Curples,
and wasten from each troop deducted, 9ʰ was given new last year. The
hattes to be made according to the number of the Granadeers, mounting
for the houtboyes to be mynded.

On July 1st, 1751, George II. issued the following regulation relating
to the Regiment:--

  "_Coats._--Scarlet, double-breasted, without lappels, lined with
  blue; slit sleeves turned up with blue; the button-holes ornamented
  with narrow white lace; the buttons flat, of white metal set on two
  and two; a long slash pocket in each skirt; and a white worsted
  aiguillette on the right shoulder.

  "_Waistcoats and breeches._--Blue.

  "_Caps._--Blue cloth grenadier caps, having on the front the
  thistle within the circle of St. Andrew, and motto, 'Nemo me impune
  lacessit'; the flap red, with the white horse, and motto, 'Nec
  aspera terrent,' over it; the back part red, and the turn-up blue,
  with a thistle embroidered between the letters II. D.; the forage
  cap red, turned up with blue, and the rank of the regiment on the
  little flap.

  "_Boots._--Of jacked leather.

  "_Cloaks._--Of scarlet cloth, with a blue collar, and lined with
  blue shalloon; the buttons set on two and two on white frogs or
  loops, with a blue stripe down the centre.

  "_Horse furniture._--Of blue cloth; the holster caps and housings
  having a border of royal lace, with a blue stripe down the middle;
  the thistle, within the circle of St. Andrew, embroidered on the
  housing; and on the holster caps the King's cipher and crown with
  II. D. underneath.

  "_Officers._--Distinguished by silver lace; their coats and
  waistcoats bound with silver embroidery, the button-holes worked
  with silver; and a crimson silk sash worn across the left shoulder.

  "_Quarter Masters._--To wear a crimson sash round their waists.

  "_Serjeants._--To have narrow silver lace on the cuffs, pockets,
  and shoulder straps; silver aiguillettes, and blue and yellow
  worsted sashes tied round their waists.

  "_Corporals._--Narrow silver lace on the cuffs and shoulder-straps;
  and a white silk aiguillette.

  "_Drummers and Hautboys._--Scarlet coats lined with blue, and
  ornamented with royal lace, with blue waistcoats and breeches.

  "_Guidons._--The first, or king's guidon, to be of crimson silk,
  embroidered and fringed with gold and silver; in the centre the
  rose and thistle conjoined, and crown over them, with the motto,
  'Dieu et mon Droit,' underneath; the white horse in a compartment
  in the first and fourth corners, and II. D. in gold characters on
  a blue ground, in the second and third corners; the second and
  third guidons to be of blue silk; in the centre the thistle within
  the circle of St. Andrew, and motto, 'Nemo me impune lacessit';
  the white horse on a scarlet ground in the first and fourth
  compartments; and II. D., on a red ground, within a small wreath of
  roses and thistles, in the second and third corners."

[Illustration: +General Dalzell's Comb.+]

In the volume belonging to the Regiment, and dated 1759, are the
following entries relating to dress:--

  "_22 January._--A stiver to be stopped from each man for
            having his hatt cocked, which the Major hopes the
            regiment won't be against paying, as it is for their own
            advantage.

  "_25 January._--The troops to send the bread waggons for their
            hatts and gloves on Monday next, and no man to presume to
            alter the cock, otherwise it will be done over again, and
            he be obliged to pay every time it is not in shape."

In 1764 further changes were made. The Regiment was ordered to be
remounted with long-tailed horses! The officers and men were directed
to wear epaulettes on the left shoulder instead of aiguillettes. The
colour of the waistcoats and breeches was changed from blue to white,
and the button-holes were ordered to be plain. At the same time, jacked
leather boots were replaced by others of a lighter description, and the
silver binding on the officers' coats was discontinued.

On December 19th, 1768, appeared another royal warrant ordering the
Regiment to wear black bearskin caps, with the thistle within the
circle of St. Andrew, and the motto, "Nemo me impune lacessit," on the
front of the cap.

In 1788, an order was issued for sword-belts to be worn suspended
across the right shoulder, instead of being fastened round the waist;
also to wear an epaulette, or strap, on the right shoulder uniform with
that on the left.

  "Account of Articles of Cavalry Equipment furnished to four
  Recruits of the 2nd (or R.N.B.) Regiments of Dragoons, enlisted at
  Head Quarters, from 25th December, 1803, to 24 January, 1804:--

  4 Pairs of Saddle Bags with Locks and Keys.
  4 Corn Bags.
  4 Watering Bridles.
  4 Horse Logs.
  4 Curry Combs and Buckles.
  4 Mane Combs and Sponges.
  4 Horse Pickers.
  4 Lock Covers.
  4 Water Sponges.
  4 Pairs of Scissors.
  4 Horse Cloths.
  4 Surcingles."

  "Account of Necessaries furnished to James Thomas, a Recruit
  enlisted by a Party of the 2nd (or R.N.B.) Regiment of Dragoons
  in the Leeds Recruiting District on the 3d of June, 1803, and who
  deserted on the 6th of the same month, but has since been recovered
  and joined the Regiment the 16th Jany. 1804.

  One Pair of Shag Breeches.
  Stable Jacket and Trousers.
  Three Shirts.
  Two Pair of Worsted Stockings.
  One Pair of Leggins.
  Two Pair of Shoes.
  Stock & Clasps.
  Three Shoe Brushes.
  Hair Comb & Razor.
  Cloth Brush.
  Turn Key & Worm.
  Soap Box.
  Blacking Ball.
  Foraging Cap.
  Saddle Bags with Lock and Key.
  Corn Bag.
  Watering Bridle.
  Horse Log.
  Currie Comb & Brush.
  Mane Comb & Sponge.
  Horse Picker.
  Lock Cover.
  Water Sponge.
  Pair of Scissars.
  Horse Cloth.
  Surcingle."

[Illustration: +General Thomas Dalzell's Dagger and Spoon.+]

[Illustration: +Officer of the Royal Scots Greys, about 1834.+

_From a rare Print kindly lent by Messrs. Robson & Co._]

  "Account of Articles of Necessaries and Cavalry Equipment furnished
  to George Milward, a Recruit who was enlisted at the Head Quarters
  of the Regiment at Canterbury on the 1st March, 1805, and Deserted
  before being attested, and who has been recovered to, and joined
  the Regiment the 23d May, 1807, as per War Office Route, dated 6
  April, 1807:--

    1807.                                                       £ _s._ _d._

  June 3d.  To a Pair of Regimental Shag Breeches                   17   6
                 Pair of Breeches Slings                             1   6
                 Stable Jacket                                      15   6
                 Trousers                                            7   6
                 Foraging Cap                                        3   6
                 Nose Bag                                            1   0
                 Watering Bridle                                     5   6
                 Horse Log                                               6
                 3 Shirts at 9_s._ each                          1   7   0
                 Night Cap                                           1   0
                 Stock and Clasps                                    1   8
                 3 Pair Worsted Stockings at 3_s._ 2_d._ p. pr.      9   6
                 1 Pair of Long Black Gaiters                        8   4
                 2 Pair of Shoes at 8_s._ 6_d._ the pair            17   0
                 1 Pair of Shoe Clasps                                   8
                       &c., &c.
                 Scissors                                            1   6
                 Button Stock and Hook                                   8
                 Powder Bag, Powder and Puff                         1   6
                 Carbine Lock Cover, Pair of Saddle Bags,
                       Lock and Key                                 18   4
                 Horse Cloth                                         8   0
                 Surcingle                                           4   6"

In 1808, an order was issued for the men's hair to be cut short,
instead of being plaited and tied up and powdered. In 1811, an order
was made for the men's coats to be made in future shorter in the
skirts, and broad yellow lace, down the front and round the skirts and
cuffs, was introduced in the place of the narrow white lace hitherto
worn across the breast, arms, and skirts. Also plush breeches were to
be worn instead of leather.

In the summer of 1812, web breeches and grey cloth overalls were
introduced, and a valice (_sic_) of scarlet cloth was substituted for
the leather saddle bags. The battle of Waterloo, so famous in the
Regiment's history, is commemorated by the badge of an eagle displayed
on the guidons, and the word "Waterloo" borne on the guidons and on the
grenadier caps.

In the Official Regulations for Officers' Dress, dated 1846, page 109:--

  "The Second or Royal North British Dragoons have permission to wear
  a bear-skin cap with a white hackle feather, nine inches long,
  according to regimental pattern."

In the Official Regulations of 1864 for Officers, at p. 57:--

  "Head dress for the 2nd Dragoons, a bear-skin cap, with a gilt
  thistle on the front, and on the left side a gilt grenade to
  receive the plume bearing the Royal arms, above the badge of St.
  Andrew, and the word 'Waterloo' below.

  "Plume, a white hackle feather, nine inches long."

At page 42 of the Officers' Dress Regulations, dated 1894, is:

  "Cap for 2nd Dragoons (Scots Greys) black bearskin, 10 inches high;
  with a gilt thistle in front; and a gilt grenade on the left side,
  as a plume socket, bearing the badge of St. Andrew, with the Royal
  arms above, and the word 'Waterloo' below. Plain gilt burnished
  chain, lined with black leather.

  "Plume--white hackle feather, 9 inches long."

[Illustration: +An Officer in Levée Dress, Crimean Period.+]




CHAPTER VIII.


The following, copied from the original Roll still existing in
Edinburgh, was very kindly given to me by the Right Honourable the Earl
of Dunmore:--

                COMPOSITION OF THE ROYAL SCOTTISH REGIMENT
                         OF DRAGOONS (SCOTS GREYS)

        +at their First (Recorded) Muster on Bruntisfield Links
                            in July, 1683+.

  _Colonel-in-Chief_    General Sir Thos. Dalzell, Commander-in-chief
                        of his Majesty's Troops in Scotland.

  _Lieutenant-Colonel_  The Right Honᵇˡᵉ. Lord Charles Murray.

  _Major (1)._

  Sir James Turner, Bart.

  _Captains (3)._

  John Inglish
  John Strachan
  William Clelland
  The Col.-in-chief, }  all Captains (3)
  The Colonel and    }  of troops.
  The Major          }

  _Quarter-Master._

  Andrew Ross

  _Regimental Chirurgeon._

  James Irving

  _Aide Major._

  David Beatson

  Marischall

  _Lieutenants (6)._

  James Murray
  Thomas Wynram
  Henry Dundas
  Alexander Bruce
  John Livingstone
  John Crichton

  _Ensigns or Cornets (6)._

  James Innes
  John Baillie
  John Whytford
  James Dundas
  Henry Drummond
  Lewis Lauder

  Sergeants              12
  Corporals              12
  Drummers               12
  Rank and File         311

          +Mustare Roll of Hys Excellency General Dalyell hys
                    Companie off Dragoones, 1683.+

  General Dalyell                Colonel
  Thomas Wynram                  Captain and Lieutenant
  John Baillie                   Ensigne
  Andrew Rosse                   Quarter-Master
  David Beatston                 Aide-Major
  James Irving                   Regimental Chirurgeon

  David Currier   }              Sergeants
  James Weymss    }

  David Dickers   }              Corporalls
  Daniel McCallum }

  James Matthews  }              Drumers
  John Steuart    }

  Alexander Calhoune
  Alexander Ffrench
  Alexander Steuart
  Adam Rutherford
  Andrew Thomson
  Andrew Easone
  Andrew Page
  David Crichton
  David Williamson
  David Stevenson
  David Wright
  David Park
  George Purvis
  George Spence
  George Keith
  Gideon Coatts
  Henry Livingstone
  Henry McLellan
  Heugh Stirling
  John McMath
  John Maitland
  John Miller
  John Cowan
  John Gibb
  John Burnett
  John Baird
  John McLellan
  John Hermistoun
  John Murray
  John Bisket
  John Harrison
  James Sheill
  James Johnstone
  James Lawson
  James Hamilton
  James Cowan
  James Pringle
  James McCulloch
  Mungo Thompson
  Patrick Gibb
  Patrick McKellar
  Robert Mill
  Thomas Home
  William Rawlinson
  William Maillie
  William Downie
  William Reid
  Walter Browne
  Heugh Calthaine

  Alex. Wood, W. Edmonstone, James Alexander      Officers' servants

This companie consists of Ffyftie Dragoones

The Officers being allowed

                                    (Signed) +Thos. Wynram+
                                             +John Baillie+
                                             +And. Middleton+.

                                   P. M.

          +Mouster Rolle of Milord Charles Murray's Troope Of
                      Dragonniers, 28 July 1683.+

  Lord Charles Murray            Lieutenant Colonel
  Alexander Bruce                Lieutenant
  James Inneis                   Ensigne

  James Colvill   }              Sergeants
  Patrick Logan   }

  Robert Ramsay   }              Corporals
  Laurence Mercer }

  James Malcolm   }              Drumers
  John McKin'll   }

  Alexander Grig
  Alexander Stewart
  Alexander Callendar
  Andrew Johnson
  Archbal Wadell
  Archbal Buchanan
  Alexander MacDonald
  Colbert Andreson
  David Mick
  Francis Agniew
  Francis Espellin
  George Johnston
  George Lin
  Grigor MacGrigor
  John Balner
  John Christy
  John Wacker
  John Murray, Lt. Col's servant
  Jaems MacMillan
  Jaems Andrewson
  Jaems Ramsaye
  Jaems Fintry
  Jaems Dick
  Jaems Gooch
  Patrick Inneis
  Patrick Sampson
  Robert Foord
  Robert Grym
  Patrick Gray
  Robert Ward
  Robert Smith
  Robert Elison
  Robert Young
  William Ernwing
  William Wacker
  William Lassellee
  Patrick Bell
  Peter de mol
  Patrick Gardinier
  Patrick Miller
  Ritchard Hoop
  Ritchard Teyllieur
  Thomas Ewing
  Walter Murray
  William Grym
  William Fforbes
  William Bernabe
  William Dalzell
  William Stewart
  William Ward

Thys is ye Mouster Rolle off Ld. Charles Murrays companie off Dragoones
Moustered first att Bruntsfield Links 28 July and after att Bathgait
the 4 December 1683 by me thys companie consists off Ffyftie Draggooners

                                                 (Signed) +Alex. Bruce+.

                   +Muster Roall of Sir James Turners
                         Companie of Dragouns+

                     +Mustered at Bruntsfield Links
                              July 1683.+

  Sir James Turner        Major and Captan
  James Murray            Lieutenant
  James Dundas            Ensigne

  David Grive    }        Sergeants
  Alex. Grive    }

  Wm. Borthwick  }        Corprales
  Thomas Dunbar  }

  James Knox     }        Drumers
  William Hall   }

  Sir James      }      { Richard Turnbull
    his servants }      { John McKinnie

  Lieutenants    }      { John Trevin
    servants     }      { James Inglish

  Ensigneys      }        James Collear
    servant      }

  Andrew Knox
  Andrew Young
  Adame Turnbull
  Donald Henderson
  Duncan Grant
  Gavin Wood
  George Lauder
  George Willson
  George Edmiston
  George Stead
  George Stoddard
  James Ker
  James Inglish
  James Lauder
  James Paine
  John Watson
  John Heron
  John Morrison
  John Turner
  John Lillithorne
  John Yeats elder
  John Yeats yr.
  John Scott
  John Grant
  John Smart
  John Murray elder
  John Murray yr.
  John Muir
  Murdoch McKinnie
  Mathew Tam
  Mungo Murray
  Patrick Pennicuik
  Patrick Turner
  Robert Wilson
  Robert Yeats
  Robert McInrie
  Robert Stevenson
  Robert Dumbar
  Robert McCulloch
  Robert Alexander
  Thomas Johnston
  Thomas Pagan
  Walter Scott
  William Milne
  William Garbraith
  William Craig
  William Edmistone
  William Watson
  William Smyth
  William Sutherland

                                    (Signed) +J. Turner+
                                             +James Murray+
                                             +And. Middleton+.

         +Muster Rolle off Captain John Inglishes Companie off
                    Dragooniers, 14th June, 1683.+

  John English         Captain
  Henry Dundas         Lievtenant
  Lewis Lauder         Ensigne

  John Murray       }  Sergeants
  John Pace         }

  Thomas Ker        }  Corporalls
  John Drummond     }

  William Hendrie   }  Drums
  Douggal Carmichal }

  Andrew Ker
  Alexander Younger
  Alexander Eastoun
  Andrew Clogg
  David Durrham
  David Thompson
  David Colwar
  David Mitchell
  Daniel Carmichal
  Edward Lorrayn
  George Gordon
  George Monro
  George Carruthers
  George Kerr
  George Fforbes
  George Loudoun
  James Ker
  James Inglish
  John Lyon
  James Rutherford
  James Donaldson
  James Murray
  John Ruthven
  John McRooney
      (Officers Servt.)
  John Thompson
  John Cushnay
  John Innes
  John Watt
      (Officers Servt.)
  John Farloph
  John Cuithall
  John Murray
  John Bathew
  John Lalbrow
  John Speed
  John Robertson
  John Farquharson
  John McLean
  John Wright
  John Harbid
  Lashbrown Turnbull
  Mathew Gray
  Pat Gillespie
      (Officers Servt.)
  Robert Rayfield
  Robert Kerr
  Richard Bryer
  Thomas Simm
  Thomas Brown
  William Rathoon
      elder
  William Rathoon yr.
  William Cleghorn
  William Teylleour
  William Bell
  William Duncan
  William Craig

                                    (Signed) +J. Inglish+
                                             +H. Dundas+
                                             +And. Middleton+

             +Muster Roll June, 1683, of Captain Strachan's
                        Companie of Dragoones.+

  John Strachan          Captain
  John Livingstone       Lieutenant
  Harry Drumond          Cornet

  John Smith          }  Sergeants
  John McFarlan       }

  James Mitchell      }  Corporalls
  Alexander Graham    }

  William McNaughton  }  Drums.
  John Hord           }

  Andrew Proudfoot
  Andrew Clelland
  Andrew Caloell
  Alexander McLaren
  Adam Archbald
  Andrew Latimer
  Duncan MacGregor
  Duncan MacGruther
  Edward Sinclair
  Gilbert Ferguson
  George Keith
  George Stovie
  John Bell
  John Blekirn
  John Brokonaig
  John Strachan
  John Duncan
  James Boll
  James Moore
  James Patterson
  John Stimson
  John Goodall
  John Ffallrond
  John Ladoll
  James Kapell
  James Petrie
  John Scott
  James Thatcher
  John Wilsone
  John Johnstone
  John Carruthers
  John Wylderman
  Matthew McColl
  Peter Maitland
  Peter Miever
  Robert Livingstone
  Robert Litquhor
  Robert Smith
  Robert Morrison
  Robert Storeyson
  Robert McAlexander
  Thomas Storeyson
  Thomas Harve
  Thomas Smith
  Thomas Tarth
  William Semorvil
  William Largs
  William Houston
  William Storroth

                                    (Signed) +Jo. Strachan+
                                             +Jo. Livingstone+
                                             +And. Middleton+.

            +Moustart Roll of Captaine Clelland his Company.
              Moustart at Bruntisfield Links, July 1683.+

  William Clelland            Capitaine
  John Crichton               Lieut.
  John Whytfold               Ensigne

  James Irving     }          Sergeants
  Will. McIntosh   }

  Duncan Ffrissall }          Corporalls
  William Pownie   }

  Walter Hutchison }          Drumbors
  Andrew Granford  }

  Alexander Lindsay
  Alexander Wood
  Alexander Irving
  Alexander Irving
  Alexander Crichtoun
  Andrew Atchison
  Andrew Donaldsone
  Andrew Martin
  Allan McLean
  Ffrancis Storo
  David Hop
  Edward Irving
  George Wood
  George Crawford
  George Falcon
  George Grahame
  Hugh Murray
  James Douglas
  James Gibb
  James Thomsone
  James Buchanan
  James Broune
  John Guthrie
  John Paibles
  John Wood
  David Goodfellow
  John Grahame
  James Lindsaye
  James Hendersone
  John Dunster
  John Grant
  John Pirie
  James Brydone
  Jon Dun
  John Clealland
  John Thomsone
  John Pattersone
  Ludovic Stewart
  Thomas Low
  Thomas Paibles
  Patrick Marshall
  Patrick Stewart
  Robert Yooll
  Robert Grant
  Robert Craw
  Robert Watt
  William Harris
  William Pringle
  William Grahame
  William Smith

                                    (Signed)  +W. Clelland+
                                              +John Crichton+
                                              +And. Middleton+.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Pay of one Regiment of Scottish Dragoones consisting of one Colonel
in Chief, one Lieutenant Colonel, one Major and six companies, each
companie consisting of Fifty Souldiers is as followeth, viz:

  Colonell as Colonell                00:13:08
  Lyvetennant Colonell as such        00:07:00
  Major as Major                      00:05:00
  Quartermaster                       00:05:00
  Marischall                          00:02:00
  Chyrurgeon & Mate                   00:05:00
  Aide-Major                          00:07:04
                                      --------
                                      £2:05:00
                                      ========

  Capitaine: 8_s_: &: 2 Dragoons each: 1_s_: 2_d_:     Inde   00:10:04
  Lyvetennant: 5_s_: &: 2 Dragoons each: 1_s_: 2_d_:   Inde   00:07:04
  Ensigne: 4_s_: &: 1 Dragoon att 1_s_: 2_d_:          Inde   00:05:02
  Two Sergeants each 2_s_: 6_d_:                       Inde   00:05:00
  Two Corporalls each 1_s_: 8_d_:                      Inde   00:03:04
  Two Drummers each 1_s_: 8_d_:                        Inde   00:03:04
  Fyffty souldiers each 1_s._: 2_d_:                   Inde   02:18:04
                                                              --------
                                                              £4:12:10
                                                              ========

  (1688)                                                   (James II.)

                        +Scots Greys Document.+

Account of the money given out by Andrew Ross of Muick, Quarter Master
to the Scotts Regiment of Dragoones for the use of the said Regiment
by the Earl of Dunmore's order after they came to England, being in
October, 1688.

  Imprs. to James Irwin in ye Coll.'s Troop to buy a horse      £05:10:00
  To George Robinson in ye Leivt. Coll.'s troop                  06:00:00
  At York for twelve ells of blew cloth 8/p. ell.                04:16:00
  The exchange of 20 logg dollars gave half to the bot that
      went to                                                    00:03:05
  A snatch of red cloth for the Regt.                            00:03:00
  To William Irwin in the Lievt. Coll.'s troop to buy a horse    07:00:00
  For 3 poste horses with ye Major from Richmond to
      Yorke 34 miles                                             01:05:06
  To the poste Boy those three stages                            00:03:00
  For 5 doz. of hat cloths @ 10/6 p. doz.                        02:12:06
  Given to Capt. Bruce for boots to his troop                    06:08:00
  To the Lievt. Coll. for boots to his troop                     06:08:00
  To Capt. Pat. Blair for boots to his troop                     03:04:00
  To Capt. Livingstone for boots to his troop                    03:12:00
  To General Adam Blair for boots to his troop.                  01:04:00
  For the Guard Fire at Southwark                                00:12:00
  For 2 teams from Southwark to Chester                          00:15:00
  For 2 teams from then to Ffarnham                              00:10:00
  From thence to Winchester                                      01:01:00
  From thence to Donkton                                         00:17:00
  From thence to Stockbridge                                     00:12:00
  From thence to Odium                                           01:01:00
  From thence to Reading                                         00:12:00
  From thence to Wickham                                         00:14:00
  From thence to London                                          01:09:00
  To quarter Master Murray for going twice poste from
      Dunton to Salisbury upon the Regiment's accompt            02:10:00
  To lievt. Murray to get 2 horses back which were taken
      from 2 dragoons by some of the Dutch Officers              02:00:00
  To the Quarter Master for riding poste from Royston to
      London upon the Regts. accompt being 33 miles              00:10:02
  To Edward Murray Quarter Master for coming poste
      from his quarters near Chester to London upon the
      Regiment's accompt                                         09:10:00
                                                                ---------
                                                                £71:03:07
                                                                =========

The above written accompt of seventy one pounds three shillings and
sevenpence Sterling being justly given out by Andrew Ross Quarter
Master, for the use of the said Regiment conforms to my order since
they came to England. Therefore these give the said Quartermaster full
power and warrant to detayne and keep in his owne hand the like sum of
seventy one pounds three shillings and sevenpence for his own payment
out of the money belonging to the Regiment since they came to this
country.

At London the 8th day of January, 1689.

The Detention money from the Scotts Regiment of Dragoons from the month
of October 1686 and all preceedings being fully discharged by Colls.
Lievt. and Captain all detayned from them since being from the 1st.
November 1686 to the 1st. November 1688, being two yeares is disposed
of as follows--

+Charge.+

  Imprs. detayned from them from the 1st. Novr. 1686 to
      the 1st. Novr. 1687, being one logg dollar from each
      Serjeant, Corporal, Drummer and Sentinel per mensem
      makes in all 283 logg dollars for the whole Regiment
      which is                                                 £792:08:00
  The like detayned from them from the first November
      1687 to the first November 1688                           792:08:00
                                                             ------------
                                                             £1,584:16:00
                                                             ============

+Discharge.+

Accompt of the Expence of their Coats Anno 1687 one Coat.

                                                                 Scotts.
                                                              £ _s._ _d._
  Imprs. 5½ ells red cloth 2_s._ Scots pr. ell                   11:00:00
  6 ells blew serge for lyneing at 1 p. ell                       6:00:00
  Half ell green canvass for bindings                            00:04:00
  10 dozen tin buttons at 5_s._ p. doz.                          02:10:00
  10 drab weight red silk at 18_d._ p. drab                      00:15:00
  3 ounces red thread at 3_s._ p. ounce                          00:09:00
  For ... to drabb on the buttons                                00:02:00
  For making the coat                                            02:00:00
                                                                 --------
                                                                 23:00:00
                                                                 ========

  Conforme to whch. accot. the expenses of 283 coats
      amounts to 6509 £s Scots which in English
      money is                                                 £542:08:04
  The expense of 283 belts to Serjeants, Corporals,
      Drummers, Sentinels with the exchange                     100:00:00
  The expense of 283 swords with bayonets and cartridges
      boxes                                                     200:00:00
  The expenses of 12 drums with the contingent charges
      of making boxes and chests for the swords, belts,
      baionets and cartridge boxes and put all aboard in
      England                                                   017:00:00
  To the Quartermaster for his expenses and trouble in
      bringing all from severall seaports to Edinburgh
      and for hiring room for keeping them more than
      one year                                                  020:00:00
  For boots to the Regt. @ 8s. a pair                           108:00:00
  Since they came to England given for their coats, caps
      and other necessaries                                     590:02:00
  When they were in Scotland given back of the cloathing
      money by Geo. Drummonds order and Liev.
      Colonel Rattray to severall Dragoons that were
      reduced 120 logg dollars                                  028:00:00
                                                              -----------
              Sums of the Discharge                           1,605:10:04
                                                              -----------

          DISCHARGE                            £1,605:10:04
          CHARGE                                1,584:16:00
                                               ------------
          To balance                            0,020:14:04
                                               ------------

[Illustration: +Anitchkoff Palace, St. Petersburg, 2nd February, 1895.+

The +Emperor of Russia+ accepting the Picture, presented by the
Officers, of H.I.M. as Colonel-in-Chief marching past at the head of
the Regiment.]


                   LIST OF OFFICERS PAST AND PRESENT.

ALEXANDER ABERCROMBY.

  Cornet, 16 August, 1799. Promoted Lieutenant, in 52nd Foot, 19
  March, 1800.

SIR RALPH ABERCROMBY.

  Colonel, 2 November, 1796. Died on or before 16 May, 1801.

  The General who shares with Sir John Moore, the credit of renewing
  the ancient discipline and military reputation of the British
  soldier, was born at Menstry near Tullibody, in October, 1734.
  Educated at Rugby, and afterwards studied law at Edinburgh and
  Leipzig. In 1756 made a Cornet in 3rd Dragoon Guards. In 1758 he
  went with his regiment to Germany, where it formed part of the
  English force under Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick, the victor
  of Minden. Lieutenant, 1760. Captain, 1762. In 1767 he married
  Miss Menzies, with whom he lived very happily. Major, 1770.
  Lieutenant-Colonel, 1773. Became M.P. for county of Clackmannan,
  but soon gave up Parliamentary life. War broke out with France, he
  was made a Major-General, and ordered to Flanders with a Brigade.
  First made his mark at Furnes, commanded the storming column at the
  siege of Valenciennes, and was publicly thanked by the Duke of York
  for his conduct at Roubaix. Returned to England in 1795, and made a
  Knight of the Bath. In November, 1795, sailed for the West Indies
  with 15,000 men, to reduce the French Sugar Islands. In 1799 he was
  despatched with 10,000 men, to attack Holland. On 20 October in an
  attack on Bergen, he had two horses shot under him.... 24 October,
  1800, he was ordered to proceed with all his troops, to Egypt to
  expel or capture the French Army left there by Napoleon.... 27
  December, he cast anchor in the bay of Marmorice. Here he waited 6
  weeks, receiving some slight reinforcements, and discovering that
  the Turks were quite useless as allies. But while waiting he looked
  after his soldiers' health, and practised disembarkments until the
  whole force thoroughly understood how to promptly disembark, and
  every man knew his place in his boat.... On 2 March he anchored
  in Aboukir Bay.... In the end Menou was beaten back with immense
  loss, including 3 generals killed, while the English loss was only
  1464 killed and wounded. Among the latter was Sir Ralph Abercromby,
  who riding in front in his usual reckless manner, was wounded in
  the thigh by a musket ball. He was carried to the Foudroyant, the
  flagship. "What is it you have placed under my head?" asked the
  wounded general. "Only a soldier's blanket," answered the aide de
  camp. "Only a soldier's blanket; make haste and return it to him at
  once."

  He died on board the flagship on 28 March.

  No biography would be complete which did not notice his extreme
  shortsightedness, almost blindness, nor yet without noticing the
  singular sweetness and purity of his domestic life, which made all
  who came across him, from the Duke of York, whom he eclipsed, to
  Lord Camden, with whom he quarrelled, acknowledge the charm of his
  society.

MICHAEL GOOLD ADAMS.

  Cornet by purchase, 21 July, 1825. Lieutenant by purchase, 30
  July, 1829. Captain by purchase, 28 December, 1838. Exchanged to
  half-pay, unattached, 31 December, 1844.

ROBERT HENRY ADAMS.

  Born, 4 December, 1858. 2nd Lieutenant, 19 February, 1881.
  Lieutenant, 1 July, 1881. Captain, 9 October, 1889.

  Expedition to Dongola, 1896. Despatches "London Gazette," 3
  November, 1896. Fourth Class Medjidie.

  Major, 29th April, 1900. Served in South African War, 1901-2, and
  took part in operations in the Transvaal, February, 1901, to May,
  1902; the Zululand frontier of Natal, September and October, 1901;
  and in Cape Colony, May, 1902 (medal with five clasps).

ALEXANDER AGNEW.

  Cornet, 31 May, 1715.

ANDREW AGNEW.

  Captain-Lieutenant, 1 April, 1692, to 21 March, 1692-3. Captain, 22
  March, 1692-3, to 9 March, 1697-8. Major, 1702.

ANDREW AGNEW.

  Cornet, 20 September, 1703. Lieutenant, 11 May, 1705.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 8 February, 1712-13. Captain, 16 September,
  1715.

  Sir Andrew Agnew, fifth Baronet of Lochnau, twelfth and last of
  the hereditary Sheriffs of Galloway, was born in 1687. He joined
  Marlborough's army as a volunteer immediately after the battle
  of Blenheim.... He fought bravely at Ramillies, Oudenarde, and
  Malplaquet. At the Peace of Utrecht he was reduced as Captain on
  half-pay of the Scots Greys. Soon after he eloped with a kinswoman,
  the daughter of Captain Thomas Agnew, of the same regiment. This
  lady, to whom he was married in London, bore him 18 children.
  She survived her husband, and died at the age of 87. At the time
  of the rebellion of 1715-16, the young laird of Lochnau was on
  full pay in Colonel Pocock's, which was disbanded in Ireland in
  1718, when he was removed to the 21st Royal Scots Fusiliers, with
  which corps he served upwards of a quarter of a century, becoming
  Lieutenant-Colonel in 1740, and commanding it with distinction
  at the battle of Dettingen. He held Brigade commands under the
  Duke of Cumberland in Flanders, at Bruges, Ghent, and Ostend,
  and at the head of his Scots Fusiliers accompanied the army sent
  to Scotland in 1746, when he was detached to Blair Castle, and
  made a gallant stand there. In 1756 he became Major-General, and
  Lieutenant-General in 1759. Sir Walter Scott describes him as a
  soldier of the old school, stiff and formal in manner, brave to the
  last degree, and something of a humourist.

JAMES AGNEW.

  Cornet, 31 May, 1715.

THOMAS AGNEW.

  Cornet, 1702. Lieutenant, 11 May, 1705. Captain-Lieutenant, 31 May,
  1715.

PATRICK AINGER.

  Chirurgeon, 11 April, 1687.

GEORGE AINSLIE.

  Made Cornet, 13 January, 1753. Made Sub-Lieutenant in the second
  troop of Horse Grenadier Guards, 8th August.

GILBERT AIRD.

  Promoted from Sergeant in the Major's troop, to Quartermaster in
  Captain Clarke's troop, May, 1800. Cornet in Royal Wagon Train, 9
  January, 1804.

THOMAS AIRD.

  Cornet, 26 August, 1794. Lieutenant, 16 August, 1799. Captain in
  Royal Wagon Train, May, 1800.

THE HONOURABLE WALTER PHILIP ALEXANDER.

  Son of the third Earl of Caledon. Born, 9 February, 1849.

  Cornet by purchase, 3 February, 1869. Lieutenant by purchase, 10
  May, 1871. Adjutant, 18 December, 1875. Captain, 24 November, 1877.
  Major, 5th July, 1886. Lieutenant-Colonel, 5 July, 1896.

  Commanded the Greys in South Africa, 1899-1900; present in command
  of first cavalry brigade at crossing of Reit and Modder Rivers
  (mentioned in despatches).

CHARLES JEFFERYS WATSON ALLEN.

  From half-pay in the 12th Lancers, Captain, 31 December, 1861.
  Retired 13 March, 1866.

EDWARD AMPHLETT.

  Cornet by purchase, 28 June, 1844. Lieutenant by purchase, 25 June,
  1847. Retired 21 June, 1850.

GEORGE ANDERSON.

  Chaplain, 10 January, 1705-6.

CHARLES ANNESLEY, M.D.

  Appointed Surgeon 27 February, 1817. Retired 28 June, 1836.

PHILIP ANTROBUS.

  From Lieutenant 91st Foot, appointed Paymaster 1 January, 1849.
  Half-pay as Captain 21st Light Dragoons, 1 September, 1854.

GEORGE ARBUTHNOT.

  From 53rd Foot, Lieutenant 6 October, 1875. (Apparently his first
  commission in the Army was 28 October, 1871.)

GEORGE ARMSTRONG.

  Lieutenant in Sir Robert Hay's troop, 16 January, 1706-7.

JAMES J. ARMSTRONG.

  Cornet, without purchase, 8 June, 1855. Exchanged to 89th Foot, 17
  July, 1857.

F. J. ASHBURNER.

  Paymaster, January, 1885. From 2nd Dragoon Guards.

THOMAS CARY ASKEW.

  Lieutenant, 27 July, 1820, exchanged from half-pay, 18th Light
  Dragoons. Died 1826.

THOMAS ASKEW.

  Cornet, 12 April, 1793. Appointed Lieutenant, 26 June, 1793.
  Appointed Captain in Lord Fielding's Light Cavalry, 25 February,
  1794.

ALEXANDER AUCHENLECK.

  Lieutenant, 31 May, 1715.

JAMES AUCHENLECK.

  11 May, 1705, Cornet in Patrick Robertson's troop.

  Brevet of Lieutenant, 21 February, 1707-8, in Colonel the Earl of
  Stair's troop.

ANTHONY BACON.

  Lieutenant, 2 February, 1815. Half-pay in 16th Dragoons, 11 March,
  1813.

JOHN BAILY (or BAILLIE) +of Porkemat+.

  In 1681 made Ensign of Colonel Dalzell's own Company. Appointed
  Cornet of Lieutenant-General Dalzell's own troop, 30 March, 1685.

ROBERT BAINBRIDGE.

  Cornet by purchase, 29 February, 1856. Seems to have joined the
  17th Light Dragoons, 7 March, 1856.

WILLIAM BAIRD.

  Cornet, 2 May, 1794. Lieutenant, 30 January, 1800. Captain
  September, 1805. Appointed in March, 1808, Captain in 66th Foot.

DAVID BAITSON.

  On 30 March, 1685, appointed Aid Major to the Regiment.

GEORGE BALFOUR.

  Appointed Cornet 1762. Lieutenant, 5 June, 1769. Captain, 3
  November, 1774. Major, 28 July, 1790. Retired, 3 June, 1793.

  In the Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1767, entered as George Balfour
  Ramsay, and after that, entered George Ramsay.

HENRY BALFOUR.

  Major, 1 April, 1692, to 7 September, 1692.

ROBERT BALFOUR.

  Captain, 9 July, 1793. 3 April, 1801, Major without a Troop.
  17 February, 1803 appointed Major with a Troop. Promoted
  Lieutenant-Colonel, 22 August, 1805. Commission as "Colonel in the
  army," 25 September, 1803. Left the Regiment, on being appointed 4
  June, 1814, Major-General.

JOHN BALLANTYNE.

  Chaplain, June, 1739. Succeeded by Walter Paterson, 8 July, 1752.

HENRY BARING.

  Cornet by purchase, 10 June, 1853. Exchanged on 5 July, 1853, to
  13th Light Dragoons.

CHARLES LEVYNS BARNARD.

  Captain, 2 February, 1815. In the Record Office, 1814 Army List,
  there seems to be an abbreviated MS. reference to him in connection
  with 20 December, 1806. Killed, 1815.

HENRY GEORGE BARNARD.

  Cornet, 21 May, 1806. Lieutenant, 10 December, 1807. Captain by
  purchase, 15 July, 1813. In 1814 on half pay.

EDWARD BARNET.

  Cornet by purchase, 23 February, 1838. Lieutenant by purchase, 28
  December, 1841. Retired 16 May, 1845.

J. W. BARTON.

  Cornet in Captain Johnston's troop, exchanged 19 August, 1803, to
  the half pay of Fenwick's Regiment.

OSBORNE BARWELL.

  Lieutenant 13 April, 1815.

GEORGE FREDERICK ALEXANDER MUNGO BASHFORD.

  From Royal Military College.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 March, 1866. Lieutenant by purchase, 30
  June, 1869. Exchanged into Ceylon Rifles, 5 April, 1871.

DAVID BEATSON.

  1 August, 1683, appointed Aide-Major. 23 August, 1688, appointed
  Cornet of James Murray's troop.

JAMES BECK.

  Cornet in Captain Hamilton's troop, 5 April, 1798. Entered as
  second Lieutenant in Muster ending 24 March, 1799. 30 January,
  1800, resigned.

DAVID BELL.

  Appointed Quartermaster 1 May, 1762.

JOHN BENNET.

  Cornet, 11 May, 1705.

L. H. BENNETT.

  Paymaster and honorary Captain, July, 1889.

  South African War, 1879. Zulu campaign. Battle of Ulundi. Medal
  with clasp.

WILLIAM BENNET.

  Captain 1 April, 1692, to 11 September, 1695.

JOHN P. BENTEIN.

  Captain by purchase, 26 May, 1814.

LORD WILLIAM BENTINCK.

  Captain-Lieutenant, 1 August, 1792. Appointed Captain in 11th
  Dragoons 20 February, 1793.

GEORGE BETHELL.

  Cornet, 15 November, 1740.

DAVID BETSON.

  Lieutenant, 12 November, 1794. Retired (about 3 May), 1796.
  Promoted Captain in 9th Regiment of Foot, 27 December, 1797 (!).

ROWLAND VEITCH BETTY.

  Cornet, under the augmentation, without purchase, 12 February,
  1858. 23 March, 1858, went to the 2nd Dragoon Guards.

JAMES BIGGERT.

  Quartermaster, 25 April, 1798, in Major Andrew Gillon's troop.

WILLIAM CONNEL BLACK.

  Cornet by purchase, 18 March, 1859. Lieutenant by purchase, 14
  June, 1864. Captain by purchase, 19 January, 1870. Retired, 28 May,
  1870.

EDWARD BLACKETT.

  Cornet, 29 May, 1754. 26 December, 1755, made Lieutenant. 1 May,
  1762, made Captain of the Light troop, in succession to Francis
  Lindsay, resigned.

ALEXANDER BLACKIE.

  Quartermaster, 1 March, 1797. Promoted Cornet in Royal Wagon Train,
  13 February, 1806.

SIR ADAM BLAIR, YOUNGER OF CARBERRY.

  7 November, 1685, appointed Captain of that troop which was
  commanded by the deceased Captain William Cleland.

HAMILTON BLAIR.

  Made a Cornet, 25 April, 1741, made Lieutenant, 6 August, 1742,
  Captain-Lieutenant, 2 April, 1746, Captain, 3 February, 1746-7,
  Major, 9 March, 1757.

  Sir Bryce Blair, of Blair, afterwards knighted by Charles I.,
  married in 1618 Marian, daughter of Walter Dundas, of Dundas. His
  son, John, died without issue, and was succeeded by his uncle,
  John Blair, who married Lady Jean Cunningham, daughter of William,
  eighth Earl of Glencairn, and dying in 1662, was succeeded by his
  son, William Blair, of Blair. This gentleman was named by the
  restoration government of Scotland a member of the Commission in
  Ayrshire for holding courts on the Covenanters, but he early joined
  the revolution party.... Having raised a troop of horse in support
  of King William, he marched with it into Perthshire. News of this
  reaching Viscount Dundee, then in arms in Atholl for King James, he
  determined to surprise them, and marching by night towards Perth,
  he entered the city unawares early the next morning, seized the
  laird of Blair and the laird of Pollock who was with him, and two
  other officers, in their beds. He carried them off prisoners to the
  highlands, where the laird of Blair died shortly afterwards. He had
  married Lady Margaret Hamilton, daughter of William, 2nd Duke of
  Hamilton. Their son, William Blair of Blair, was a commissioner of
  supply for the county of Ayr in the convention parliament which met
  in 1689. He married Magdalene, daughter of James Campbell. Their
  son John predeceased him unmarried, and was succeeded by his sister
  Magdalene, who married William Scott, and had a son William, her
  heir. The heiress of Blair is supposed to have died before 1715,
  and Mr. Scott, her widower, who had assumed the name and arms of
  Blair, married secondly Catherine Tait, of Edinburgh. Their eldest
  son, Hamilton, became Major in the Greys.

PATRICK BLAIR.

  30 July, 1686, made Captain of the troop lately commanded by John
  Wedderburne.

THOMAS BLAIR.

  Cornet in the Army, 25 June, 1747, and in the Greys, 21 June,
  1749, succeeded by Second Cornet James Johnston, from half-pay in
  Crawford's, 27 November, 1752.

WILLIAM J. BLAKE.

  Cornet from the 89th Foot, 17 July, 1857.

WILLIAM BLANE.

  Cornet, 14 October, 1819. Lieutenant by purchase, 24 October, 1821.

BLEAN.

  Chaplain, 1702.

J. HAYDOCK BOARDMAN.

  Lieutenant in Captain Patrick Smith's troop, in Muster ending 24
  December, 1779; Captain-Lieutenant, 7 February, 1787; Captain,
  18 July, 1787; Major, 3 June, 1793. In the Roll ending 24
  December, 1794, David Horne is noted under the formula:--"Absent
  by the King's leave"; and Boardman is evidently in command as
  Lieutenant-Colonel of the Regiment, now abroad. Coming to the "Pay
  List from 25 December, 1797, to 24 February, 1798," he is entered
  as "Lieutenant-Colonel without a troop." Resigned, 17 February,
  1803.

GEORGE BOGLE.

  Cornet by purchase, 8 October, 1830. Retired, 21 November, 1834.

EDWIN BOLTON.

  Sub-Lieutenant (from 1st Dragoon Guards), 15 August, 1877.
  Lieutenant, 11 November, 1877.

WILLIAM CUNNINGHAME BONTINE.

  From Ensign in the 15th Foot. Cornet by purchase, 6 November, 1846.
  Retired, 22 November, 1850.

ARCHIBALD BOTHWELL.

  Cornet, 2 November, 1785; Lieutenant, 28 July, 1790; Captain, 22
  February, 1793; Major, 17 July, 1795. Both J. H. Boardman and A.
  Gillon still also appearing as Majors on the roll. In the "Pay List
  from 25 December, 1797, to 24 February, 1798," Bothwell is entered
  as "Major without a troop." 3 April, 1801, succeeded to a troop.
  Appointed Lieutenant-Colonel, 17 February, 1803.

ROBERT BOWER.

  Appointed Cornet, 18 July, 1787. Retired, 14 December, 1790.

NINIAN BOYD.

  Lieutenant, 1 October, 1694, to 27 April, 1697; Captain-Lieutenant,
  28 April, 1697, to yᵉ 9th March, 1697-8; Captain, 1702; Major and
  Captain, 24 August, 1706.

WILLIAM BOYD.

  Captain, 24 December, 1852, exchanging from the 87th Foot. Major in
  the Army, 31 August, 1854. Died before 13 September, 1855.

ALWYN W. J. BRAMLY.

  Second Lieutenant, 6 March, 1895.

MATTHEW BRICKDALE.

  Cornet, 22 May, 1782, in Captain Patrick Smith's troop. Promoted
  Lieutenant in 70th Foot, 22 July, 1785.

JOHN BROWN.

  Cornet, 1 January, 1693-4, to last day of February, 1694.

CHARLES BROWNE.

  Cornet, 24 July, 1749. Resigned, 13 January, 1753.

ANDREW SMYTHE MONTAGUE BROWNE.

  Cornet, from 56th Foot, 25 November, 1853. Lieutenant by purchase,
  16 March, 1855. Wounded slightly, see _Gazette_, 12 November, 1854.
  Captain by purchase, 24 December, 1858. Major by purchase, 30 June,
  1869, Lieutenant-Colonel of 3rd Dragoon Guards, 1 October, 1877.

  Crimean campaign, 1855-6. Battle of Tchernaya and siege and fall of
  Sevastopol. Medal, with clasp; Turkish medal.

HUGH EDMOND BROWNING.

  Cornet without purchase, 26 February, 1856. Lieutenant without
  purchase, by augmentation, 27 November, 1857. Captain by purchase,
  19 July, 1864. Retired 22 June, 1870.

CAPTAIN ALEXANDER BRUCE.

  On 11 May, 1683, appointed Lieutenant of Lieutenant-Colonel
  Lord Charles Murray's company. On 30 March, 1685, King James
  issues a similar commission. On 6 November, 1685, appointed
  Captain-Lieutenant of Lord Charles Murray, his own troop.

MICHAEL BRUCE.

  Cornet, 10 May, 1751. On the 20th May, 1752, "exchanged with Second
  Lieutenant Alexander Coningham from half-pay in Batereau's."

JOHN RAMSAY BRUSH, M.D.

  Surgeon, from 93rd Foot, 21 July, 1854. Exchanged to Second Class,
  Staff, 18 January, 1856.

DAVID CARRICK ROBERT CARRICK BUCHANAN.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 May, 1845. Retired, 16 March, 1849.

GEORGE BUCHANAN.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 March, 1849. Lieutenant by purchase, 27
  August, 1852. Captain without purchase, 8 December, 1854. Retired,
  28 April, 1863.

CHARLES B. BULKELEY-JOHNSON.

  Born 19 November, 1867. Second Lieutenant, 5 February, 1887.
  Lieutenant, 16 March, 1889. Captain, 13 June, 1894.

  Served in the Soudan Campaign, 1899, and commanded the Egyptian
  cavalry during the operations which resulted in the final defeat
  and death of the Khalifa (4th class Medjidie British medal and
  Khedive's medal with two clasps).

RICHARD BULLEN.

  Cornet, 14 March, 1800. Lieutenant, 4 April, 1801. Captain, 19 May,
  1808. Died before 1814.

RICHARD BURFORD.

  Appointed Paymaster, 31 January, 1809. Resigned, 13 October, 1814.

SIR MONTAGU ROGER BURGOYNE, +8th Baronet+.

  Cornet, 1 May, 1789. Captain-Lieutenant, 1 May, 1793. Promoted
  to Major 27th Light Dragoons, 24 June, 1794. According to the D.
  N. B. he, in 1795, became Lieutenant-Colonel of the short-lived
  32nd Light Dragoons. He was afterwards for some years one of the
  Inspecting Field Officers of Yeomanry and Volunteer Corps. He died
  at his mother's residence in Oxford Street, London, on 11 August,
  1817.

JAMES TRAVERS BURKE.

  Cornet, 22 August, 1816. Exchanged to half-pay 11th Light Dragoons,
  23 March, 1820.

WILLIAM BURY.

  Cornet, 4 October, 1745. Lieutenant, 29 November, 1750.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 9 March, 1757. Resigned, 24 April, 1762.

CHARLES BUSSELL.

  Paymaster, from half-pay, 1 September, 1854.

SIR CHARLES CAIRNY.

  31 December, 1686, to be Lieutenant-Colonel "of the Regiment of
  Dragoones of which Charles Earl of Dunmore is Colonel."

ALEXANDER CAMPBELL.

  Cornet, 13 February, 1805. Lieutenant, September, 1806. Captain,
  December, 1808. Resigned, June, 1811.

COLIN JOHN CAMPBELL.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 August, 1868. Lieutenant by purchase, 3
  August, 1870. Retired, 24 January, 1874.

DOUGLAS CAMPBELL.

  Cornet, 21 March, 1722.

HUGH MONTGOMERY CAMPBELL.

  Cornet by purchase, 1 February, 1839. Lieutenant by purchase, 22
  July, 1842. Exchanged to 89th Foot, 31 December, 1844.

SIR JAMES CAMPBELL OF LAWERS.

  Third son of the second Earl of Loudoun, his mother being Lady
  Margaret Montgomery, daughter of the Earl of Eglintoun.

  In the 1745 Army List, Sir James Campbell is given as:--

  Colonel, 1 November, 1711. Lieutenant-Colonel, 24 August, 1706.
  Major, 25 April, 1705. Captain, 25 February, 1701-2.

  The D. N. B. records as follows:--

  "He entered the army as Lieutenant-Colonel of the 2nd Dragoons or
  Scots Greys, in 1708, ... and he greatly distinguished himself
  at the hard-fought battle of Malplaquet, on 11 September, 1709.
  In this battle the Scots Greys were stationed in front of the
  right of the allied line, under the command of Prince Eugène, and
  when the obstinate resistance of the French made the issue of the
  battle doubtful, Campbell, though he had been ordered not to move,
  suddenly charged with his dragoons right through the enemie's line
  and back again. The success of this charge determined the battle
  in that quarter, and on the following day Prince Eugène publicly
  thanked Campbell before the whole army, for exceeding his orders."
  In 1717 he succeeded David, Earl of Portmore, as Colonel of the
  Scots Greys.

JAMES MURE CAMPBELL.

  Cornet, 15 November, 1740. Lieutenant, 27 May, 1742. Captain, 29
  May, 1745. Made Major to the 11th Dragoons, 24 July, 1754.

JOHN CAMPBELL, +The Honourable+.

  Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, 19 April, 1712. Colonel in the
  Army, 27 June, 1737. Colonel of the 2nd or Royal North British
  Dragoons, 29 April, 1752. Also in Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1760.
  Died, 9 November, 1770.

JOHN CAMPBELL.

  Ensign of the 25th Foot, made Cornet, 12 January, 1757. Promoted to
  Captain 24 April, 1762.

JOHN CAMPBELL.

  Cornet, 26 December, 1755. "Made Captain in the '2nd Highland
  Battalion,' and succeeded by Ensign John Campbell, of the 25th
  Foot, 12 January, 1757." (See above.)

JOHN CAMPBELL.

  Cornet by purchase, 6 November, 1835. Lieutenant by purchase, 28
  December, 1838. Captain by purchase, 22 July, 1842. Deceased, 1846.

ROBERT LAWRENCE CAMPBELL.

  Cornet in Captain David Home's troop, in Muster ending 24 June,
  1772. "Promoted Captain in the 71st Regiment of Foot," Muster
  ending 24 December, 1775.

JOHN CARNEGIE.

  Cornet by purchase, 17 April, 1823. Lieutenant by purchase, 10
  June, 1826. Promoted Captain, unattached, 8 June, 1830.

JAMES CARRUTHERS.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 August, 1811. Lieutenant by purchase, 9
  February, 1815. Died of his wounds.

WILLIAM FRANCIS CARRUTHERS.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 July, 1842. Lieutenant by purchase, 3
  December, 1844. Retired, 25 June, 1847.

HENRY CARTER.

  Cornet, 19 February, 1795. Lieutenant, 8 July, 1795. Captain, 16
  March, 1797.

CHARLES CATHCART.

  29 January, 1703-4, Brevet Captain in the Infantry, and in July,
  1705, Captain. In May, 1707, made Major of Brigade, and in May,
  1708-9, Major of Dragoons. Major, 24 March, 1708-9. 1 November,
  1711, made Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel. 16 September, 1715,
  Lieutenant-Colonel.

FREDERICK MACADAM CATHCART, +The Hon., of Craigengillan+.

  Cornet, 24 September, 1804. Aide-de-Camp to General Lord Cathcart.
  17 September, 1807, Captain in the Army, and 11 February, 1808,
  Captain in this Regiment. No other Cathcart in the Greys in
  the 1812 printed Army List. Major in the Army, 28 July, 1814.
  Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, 24 February, 1820, exchanged to
  half-pay 92nd Foot, 18 May, 1820. Born at Twickenham Common, 28
  October, 1789. Served as one of the Aides-de-Camp to his father,
  in 1805, 1806, and 1807. In the latter year he was sent home
  with the news of the surrender of the citadel of Copenhagen and
  the Danish navy. On 8 September, his father wrote: "I send this
  despatch by Lieutenant Cathcart, who has been for some time my
  first Aide-de-Camp, who has seen everything that has occurred here
  and at Stralsund, and will be able to give any further details that
  may be required." He was Minister plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg
  from 1820 to 1822, and at Frankfort from 1824 to 1826. He was made
  a Knight of the Russian Order of St. Anne. He married in 1827
  Jane, daughter and heiress of Quentin Macadam, of Craigengillan,
  Ayrshire, and consequently assumed the name of Macadam before that
  of Cathcart.

JAMES CAVALLIE.

  Cornet, 1 April, 1692, to last day of February, 1693. Lieutenant
  in one of the two additional troops, 7 January, 1693, to 12 March,
  1697-8.

JAMES CHADWICK.

  Cornet, 20 September, 1810. Lieutenant by purchase, 15 July, 1813.
  In 1817, on half-pay.

THOMAS CHEATHAM (+or+ CHETHAM).

  Lieutenant, 26 September, 1795. Retired, 7 July, 1797.

EDWARD CHENEY.

  Captain-Lieutenant, 3 May, 1800. Captain, 25 May, 1803. In the
  Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1810, he appears as Aide-de-Camp to
  General Earl Harrington. Major, 20 July, 1815. Lieutenant-Colonel
  in the Army, 18 June, 1815. In 1816 List, C.B. In 1818, exchanged
  to half-pay in Wattville's Regiment.

ROBERT CHENEY.

  Cornet, 3 September, 1794. Lieutenant, 22 October, 1794.

[Illustration: +Colonel Clarke.+]

ARCHIBALD CHRISTIE.

  Cornet, 8 May, 1806. Resigned in 1809.

JAMES CHRISTIE.

  Appointed Cornet, 5 June, 1769. 16 March, 1770, promoted
  Adjutant in place of John Forbes, resigned. Resigned Adjutancy,
  9 August, 1774. Promoted Lieutenant, 22 February, 1775. Promoted
  Captain-Lieutenant in the First Dragoons, 15 May, 1779.

GEORGE CALVERT CLARKE, +Lieut.-Gen.+ (+Hon. Gen.+)

  Born 23rd July, 1814. From 89th Foot.

  Captain, 28 March, 1845 (exchanging with H. M. Campbell). Major in
  the Army, 11 November, 1851. Wounded severely, see _Gazette_, 12
  November, 1854. Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, 12 December, 1854.
  Major without purchase, 26 February, 1858. Colonel in the Army, 23
  April, 1860. Lieutenant-Colonel without purchase, 31 March, 1866.
  Retired on half-pay, 3 February, 1869. Appointed Colonel of the
  Greys, 23 September, 1891.

ISAAC BLAKE CLARK.

  Cornet, 8 July, 1795. Lieutenant, 3 May, 1796. Captain, 7
  September, 1797. Major, 16 June, 1807. 4 June given the rank of
  Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army. Appointed Lieutenant-Colonel of the
  Greys, 20 July, 1815, in succession to L. J. Hamilton, killed at
  Waterloo. In 1816 list, C.B. Retired, 11 October, 1821.

JOHN FRED. SALES CLARKE.

  Cornet, 3 December, 1818, exchanged from half-pay 4th Dragoon
  Guards. Cornet by purchase, 11 October, 1821. Lieutenant by
  purchase, 4 October, 1822. Promoted to an unattached company,
  21 July, 1825. Exchanged, 26 July, 1827, to a Captaincy in the
  Greys. Major by purchase, 30 December, 1837. Lieutenant-Colonel
  by purchase, 2 April, 1841. Exchanged to half-pay, unattached, 6
  November, 1846.

GEORGE CLEGHORNE.

  Lieutenant from 17th Dragoons, by exchange, 17 November, 1857.
  Captain by purchase, 14 June, 1864. Retired, 30 March, 1866.

SAMUEL FREDERICK STEWART CLELAND.

  Cornet by purchase, 19 July, 1864. Retired, 8 September, 1865.

WILLIAM CLELAND.

  Captain-Lieutenant, 1681. 30 March, 1685, appointed Captain.

DEVEREUX P. COCKBURN.

  Cornet by purchase, 25 June, 1847. Retired, 18 September, 1849.

JAMES COCKBURN.

  Captain, 30 December, 1795. Aide-de-camp to Sir W. Howe. Promoted
  Major in 81st Foot, 6 September, 1797.

THOMAS COCKRAN.

  Cornet, 31 May, 1715.

MARTIN THOMAS COCKSEDGE.

  Appointed Captain of the Troop lately commanded by J. P. Hamilton,
  8 April, 1802. In Muster ending 24 June, 1802, Captain in Military
  Train.

JAMES COLHOUN.

  Surgeon, 1 June, 1750. Made a Cornet, 26 October, 1756. Lieutenant,
  24 April, 1762. Transferred in Muster ending 24 June, 1767,
  from Major Douglas's Troop to Captain Home's Troop. 16 March,
  1770, transferred to Captain Law's troop. Captain-Lieutenant, 14
  November, 1770. Resigned, 5 May, 1775.

WILLIAM FELLOWES COLLINS.

  Born 17 September, 1865. Second Lieutenant, 6 February, 1889.
  Lieutenant, 15 October, 1890. Captain, 5 July, 1896.

CHARLES R. COLT.

  Captain in the Army, 3 February, 1854. Paymaster, 1 September, 1854
  to 10 August, 1855.

JAMES COMMON.

  Quartermaster in Lieutenant-Colonel Douglas's Troop, in Muster
  ending 24 June, 1772. Died, 30 April, 1774.

H.R.H. PRINCE ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT, K.G., etc.

  Personal A.D.C. to His Majesty. Went on Special Mission to Tokio in
  1906 to invest the Mikado of Japan with the Order of the Garter.
  Captain, 1907.

THOMAS CONOLLY.

  Born, 1 September, 1870. Second Lieutenant, 28 June, 1893.
  Lieutenant, 5 December, 1894.

  Rejoined from Egyptian army, February, 1900; killed in action at
  Commando Nek, South Africa, 11th July, 1900 (see p. 98).

ALEXANDER CONYNGHAM.

  Lieutenant, 26 February, 1755. Also, 24 June, 1760. Resigned, 11
  January, 1770.

JOSEPH COPE.

  Appointed Surgeon, 9 April, 1794. Retired, 11 November, 1794.

JOHN CORRIE.

  In Muster ending 24 June, 1798. Cornet, 30 May, 1800. Retired, 2
  April, 1801.

JOHN COWAN.

  Quartermaster, 11 January, 1804.

ROBERT COWAN.

  Quartermaster, 30 April, 1794. Promoted Paymaster, 25 December,
  1797. Resigned, 31 January, 1809.

JOHN CRABBIE.

  Born, 9 September, 1861. Lieutenant, 10 May, 1882. Adjutant, 18
  January, 1888. Captain, 9 October, 1889. Adjutant to Volunteers, 16
  December, 1895. Major, 1900. South Africa, 1899-1902. Took part in
  the operations in Transvaal and Natal, 1901, including successful
  attack near Roodebloem on 15 December, 1901 (_see_ p. 128).

LAWRENCE CRAIGIE.

  Cornet, 17 December, 1800. Lieutenant, 21 June, 1802.

CHARLES CRAVEN.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 January, 1836. Lieutenant by purchase, 6
  November, 1840. Captain by purchase, 29 December, 1843. Retired, 18
  April, 1845.

JOHN, EARL OF CRAWFORD.

  Captain, 25 December, 1726.

  "The gallant Earl of Crawford"--"the most generous, the most
  gallant, the bravest, and the finest nobleman of his time." Born
  4 October, 1702, educated at University of Glasgow and Military
  Academy at Vandeuil, in Paris. Captain in the Scots Guards, 1734.
  Representative Peer, 1732, till his death in 1749. In 1733 he was
  appointed Gentleman of the Bedchamber to the Prince of Wales.
  In 1735 he joined the Imperial Army, and was at the Battle of
  Claussen, 17 October, 1735. In April, 1738, he served with the
  Russian Army against the Turks, declining however a regiment of
  Horse and the rank of Lieutenant-General in that service. He
  greatly distinguished himself in various engagements, as also at
  the Battle of Krotzha, near Belgrade, 22 July, 1739, when his horse
  was killed under him, and he himself fearfully and desperately
  wounded. He returned home, and that year was made Adjutant-General
  and Colonel of the 42nd Foot. (The Black Watch was then first made
  a Regiment, and called "Lord Crawford-Lindsay's Highlanders.")
  Colonel of the 2nd Troop of Grenadier Guards, 1740. Colonel in 1743
  of the Scottish Horse Guards, disbanded 1746. Colonel of the Scots
  Greys and Lieutenant-General, 1747. He was in command at Dettingen,
  16 June, 1743; at Fontenoy, where he conducted the retreat in
  excellent order, 30 April, 1745; in Scotland, to repress the
  rising in 1745; and at the Battle of Roucoux, in the Netherlands,
  in October, 1746. He married 3 March, 1747, Jean, eldest daughter
  of James Murray, 2nd Duke of Atholl. He died in London, in great
  suffering (his wound of 1739 breaking out for the 29th time), 25
  December, 1749.

[Illustration: "+John Earl of Craufurd.+"]

ROBERT GREGAN CRAWFORD.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 January, 1824. Lieutenant, 29 June, 1826.
  Promoted to captain of an unattached troop, 5 April, 1831.

WILLIAM CRAWFORD.

  Cornet, 10 October, 1694, to 9 March, 1697-8. Captain-Lieutenant,
  16 January, 1706, in Colonel the Earl of Stair's troop. 24
  February, 1707-8, Captain of an additional troop.

WILLIAM CRAWFORD.

  Deputy-Adjutant, 9 July, 1793, and Cornet, 17 August, 1815.
  Lieutenant, 25 June, 1819. Resigns Adjutancy, 25 November, 1828.
  Appointed Paymaster, 24 March, 1829. Retired on half-pay, 1
  January, 1849.

DAVID CRICHTON.

  Lieutenant, 1 April, 1692, to last day of February, 1693.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 1 January, 1693, to yᵉ 7 September, 1694.
  Captain of the two additional troops, from 1 October, 1694, to 15
  March, 1697-8.

JOHN CRICHTON.

  21 May, 1678, appointed Ensigne in Captain Francis Stuart's
  Independent Company. In 1681, Lieutenant in Stuart's Company. 30
  March, 1685, appointed Lieutenant of Captain Cleland's troop.

STEPHEN CROFT.

  Cornet, 19 February, 1760. In 1762 promoted to the 106th Regiment
  of Foot.

CHARLES CROSSBIE.

  Captain-Lieutenant, 7 March, 1722-3. Captain, 25 December, 1726.

DAVID CUNNINGHAM.

  Cornet, 10 September, 1778. Lieutenant, 3 March, 1779, in the
  Colonel's troop.

JOHN CUNNINGHAM.

  Cornet, 9 September, 1805. Lieutenant, 4 June, 1807. Resigned 1811.

SIR WALTER MONTGOMERY-CUNNINGHAM.

  Cornet in Captain Telfer's troop, 22 March, 1776. Resigned, 5th
  October, 1778.

  4th Baronet, of Corshill, in the parish of Stewarton, County
  Ayr, was the son of Captain Alexander Montgomery-Cunningham. He
  succeeded to the Baronetcy 4 July, 1770. He was an unsuccessful
  claimant to the Earldom of Glencairn. He died unmarried, in March,
  1814.

JAMES DALRYMPLE.

  Cornet, 6 March, 1707-8. Captain-Lieutenant, 22 July, 1715.
  Lieutenant, 5 July, 1723. Retired and succeeded by Cornet John
  Forbess, 23 April, 1742.

JAMES DALRYMPLE.

  Cornet, 21 June, 1749. Lieutenant, 11 January, 1755.

EDWARD DAVEY.

  Lieutenant, 5 April, 1796. Retired, 2 August, 1796.

GEORGE DAWLER.

  Cornet, 24 April, 1762. Transferred from the Lieutenant-Colonel's
  troop to Captain Law's troop, 24 April, 1763. Promoted Lieutenant,
  14 November, 1770. Transferred to Captain Smith's troop, 25
  April, 1779. In Muster Roll ending 24 December, 1779:--Promoted
  Captain-Lieutenant in 11th Regiment of Dragoons.

ROBERT DAWN, M.D.

  Surgeon, 4 August, 1814. Exchanged, 16 January, 1816, to 89th Foot.

WILLIAM DAWSON.

  Paymaster, 13 October, 1814. Died, 25 September, 1828.

JOSEPH BARRINGTON DEACON.

  Cornet by purchase, 26 May, 1865. Retired, 30 May, 1866.

MATTHEW FITZMAURICE DEANE, +The Honourable+.

  Cornet from the 10th Light Dragoons, 6 May, 1853. Transferred to
  4th Dragoon Guards, 10 June, 1853.

WILLIAM DELAVALLY.

  Lieutenant, 31 May, 1715.

SIR JAMES STEWART DENHAM, +Bart.+

  Born in Scotland in August, 1744, and very soon his father had
  to leave Scotland on account of being implicated in the 1745
  rebellion. The son, therefore, received his education in Germany.
  He became Cornet in the 1st or Royal Dragoons, 17 March, 1761, and
  served the campaigns of 1761 and 1762 with it in Germany. Passing
  over the rank of Lieutenant, he was made Captain in the 105th Royal
  Highlanders, 13 January, 1763. In the next year this regiment was
  disbanded. He then travelled for two years in France and Germany,
  paying special attention to the cavalry of those two nations. In
  1766 he was appointed to command a troop of the 5th Royal Irish
  Dragoons, now the 5th Royal Irish Lancers. 6 November, 1772, he was
  promoted Major into the 13th Dragoons. 26 September, 1775, he was
  transferred to the 1st Irish Horse, now the 4th Dragoon Guards. 15
  July, 1776, he was made Lieutenant-Colonel of his old regiment,
  the 13th Dragoons, on its being made a Light Dragoon regiment. In
  1781 he was elected M.P. for Lanark. 20 November, 1782, he was
  made a Colonel. In 1788 he was made President of a Commission for
  improving the discipline and general condition of the Cavalry in
  Ireland. 9 November, 1791, he was made Colonel of the 12th Light
  Dragoons. In October, 1793, made Major-General. In 1797 made a
  local Lieutenant-General. In the Rebellion of 1798 he shewed
  himself as a wise statesman as well as an able soldier. In 1813 he
  was made Colonel of the Scots Greys. Died at Cheltenham, 12 August,
  1839.

DAVID RONALD DICKSON.

  Cornet, 20 August, 1803. Lieutenant, 19 December, 1805.

JOHN DICKSON.

  Quartermaster Muster Roll, 24 June, 1760. Cornet, 22 May, 1761.
  Resigned, 4 June, 1769.

---- DISNEY.

  (Christian name not given). Made Cornet, 9 December, 1755.

CHARLES WILSHERE ONSLOW DOHERTY.

  Lieutenant, from 97th Foot, 10 January, 1872. Lieutenant in the
  Army, 28 June, 1871. Captain, 1 October, 1878. Died, 27 June, 1879.

EDWARD GEORGE MOORE DONNITHORNE.

  Cornet, by purchase, 8 September, 1865. Lieutenant in the Royal
  Artillery, 18 December, 1861. New Zealand War, 1864. Action of the
  Gate Pah. Medal. Lieutenant in the Greys, by purchase, 3 February,
  1869. Captain, 24th February, 1872. Major, 1 July, 1881.

JAMES DOUGLAS.

  Quarter-master in Captain Charles Preston's troop, 1706.

JOHN DOUGLAS.

  Cornet, 13 October, 1741. Lieutenant, 3 February, 1746-7. Adjutant,
  1 June, 1750. Captain-Lieutenant, 13 September, 1754. Captain,
  11 January, 1755. Major in Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1760.
  Lieutenant-Colonel and Captain, 14 November, 1770. Promoted Colonel
  of the 21st Dragoons, 25 April, 1779.

SIR WILLIAM DOUGLAS.

  Adjutant and Captain, 1 April, 1692, to 31 March, 1694.

WILLIAM DOUGLAS.

  Cornet, 21 April, 1692, to 27 April, 1697. Lieutenant, 28 April,
  1697, to 15 March, 1698.

WILLIAM DOUGLAS.

  Cornet, in Muster Roll of 24 June, 1760, in Major John Douglas's
  troop. Promoted Lieutenant 3 March, 1764.

ROBERT DOUNES.

  Lieutenant, from 19th Light Dragoons, by purchase, 23 October, 1817.

FRANCIS DREWE.

  Cornet, by purchase, 10 November, 1837. Died, 23 July, 1838.

HENRY DRUMMOND.

  In 1681 appointed Ensigne of Strachan's Company. 30 March, 1685,
  appointed Cornet of Captain John Strachan's Company. 23 August,
  1688, appointed Lieutenant of P. Blair's troop.

PERCY CHARLES DU CANE.

  Cornet, from the 4th Dragoon Guards, 16 July, 1858. Lieutenant, by
  purchase, 30 January, 1863. Captain, by purchase, 30 March, 1866.
  Retired 16 October, 1866.

ARTHUR CAMPBELL DUCKWORTH.

  Born, 27 September, 1870. 2nd Lieutenant, 31 January, 1894.
  Lieutenant, 5 December, 1894.

GEORGE DUNBAR.

  Cornet, 11 May, 1705. Captain-Lieutenant, 24 February, 1707-8; in
  Colonel the Earl of Stair's troop. In 1715 Captain.

JAMES BRANDER DUNBAR.

  Cornet without purchase, 12 January, 1855. Lieutenant by purchase,
  25 May, 1855. Captain without purchase, 31 March, 1866. Retired, 19
  January, 1870.

JOHN DUNBAR.

  24 February, 1707-8, Cornet in Patrick Robertson's troop.

SIR DAVID DUNDAS.

  3rd son of Robert Dundas, a merchant of Edinburgh, was born
  in 1735, and educated at the Royal Academy at Woolwich. From
  1752 to 1755 he assisted General David Watson, his maternal
  uncle, in the great survey of Scotland. Colonel, 16 May, 1801.
  General, 29 April, 1802. Resigned, 27 January, 1813, on being
  appointed Colonel of the 1st Dragoon Guards. In 1754 he was
  appointed a Lieutenant-Fireworker in the Royal Artillery, and in
  1755 a Practitioner-Engineer. In 1756 he was made a Lieutenant
  in the 56th Regiment, and in the same year was made Assistant
  Quartermaster-General to General Watson. He threw up his staff
  appointment in 1758 to join his regiment, ordered on active
  service, and took part in the attack on St. Malo, the capture of
  Cherbourg, and the fight at St. Cas. At the close of the same
  year he joined the Army under Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick,
  in the threefold capacity of Assistant Quartermaster-General,
  Engineer, and Lieutenant of Infantry. After the campaign he left
  Germany, to become a Captain in the 15th Light Dragoons. He was
  in the battles of Corlach, Warburg, and Clostercampen, the siege
  of Wesel, the battle of Fellinghausen, and then, in 1762, in the
  expedition to Cuba. The Seven Years' War over, he became a deep
  student of his profession, and attended every year manœuvres of
  the French, Prussian, or Austrian armies. In 1770 he was promoted
  Major. In 1775 he purchased the Lieutenant-Colonelcy of the 12th
  Light Dragoons. In 1778 Quartermaster-General in Ireland. In 1781
  promoted Colonel. In 1782 made Lieutenant-Colonel of the 2nd Irish
  Horse. In 1788 he published his valuable work "The Principles of
  Military Movements." In 1790 he was promoted Major-General, and
  in 1791 made Colonel of the 22nd Regiment. In June, 1792, were
  issued--Rules and Regulations for the Formation, Field Exercises,
  and Movements of His Majesty's Forces. These were drawn up by
  Dundas, and issued officially. "Rules and Regulations for the
  Cavalry," were also, at once, issued under similar conditions; but,
  in this case, he had been largely aided by the experience of Sir
  James Stewart Denham (also of the Greys). He commanded a brigade of
  Cavalry at Tournay, on 22 May, 1794. Next, he fought the battles of
  Geldermalsen and Tuyl. In 1795 he was made Colonel of the 7th Light
  Dragoons, Quartermaster-General in 1796.... In 1801 he was made
  Colonel of the Greys and Governor of Fort George, in the place of
  Sir Ralph Abercromby. In 1802 promoted General. Commander-in-Chief,
  1809 to 1811. In 1813, Colonel of the 1st Dragoon Guards. Died, 18
  February, 1820.

  Sir Henry Bunbury recorded:--"Dundas was a tall, spare man,
  crabbed and austere, dry in his looks and demeanour. He had made
  his way from a poor condition (he told me himself that he walked
  from Edinburgh to London to enter himself as a fireworker in the
  artillery).... There was much care and valour in that Scotchman."

HENRY DUNDAS.

  In 1681 Lieutenant in Inglis's Company.

JAMES DUNDAS.

  In 1681 Ensign of Turner's Company. On 11 May, 1683, appointed
  Lieutenant of Captain J. Strachan's Company. 7 November, 1685,
  commission to be Lieutenant of William Levingstoun's troop.

JAMES DUNDAS.

  30 March, 1685, appointed Cornet of Wedderburne's troop.

HUGH DE C. EASTWOOD.

  Lieutenant, 10 August, 1885.

CHARLES GASPAR EDLMANN.

  Cornet, 14 December, 1815. In 1822 appointed Riding Master. Retired
  on half-pay, 19th Light Dragoons.

HERBERT EDWARDS.

  Lieutenant, 12 November, 1852, from the 14th Light Dragoons, by
  exchange. Captain without purchase, 15 December, 1854. Retired, 13
  June, 1856.

THE EARL OF EGLINTON.

  Colonel of the Scots Greys, 2 December, 1785. Died, 1 November,
  1796.

  Archibald Montgomerie, Earl of Eglinton, born 18 May, 1726. He
  raised the 77th Regiment of Foot, which he commanded in America, in
  1757, becoming finally, 1793, General in the Army. He was M.P. for
  county Ayr, 1761 to 1768. Equerry to the Queen Consort 1761-1769.
  Governor of the Castle of Dumbarton, 1764, and Deputy Ranger of
  Hyde Park and St. James's Park, 1766; Governor of Edinburgh Castle,
  1782. Representative Peer for Scotland, 1776-1796. He married,
  30 March, 1772, Lady Jean, eldest daughter of George Lindsay,
  18th Earl of Crawford and Lindsay. She died, 22 January, 1778, at
  Eglinton Castle. He married secondly, 9 August, 1783, Frances,
  daughter of Sir William Twisden, 6th Baronet of Roydon. He died 30
  October, 1796.

JAMES DRUMMOND ELPHINSTONE.

  Major, exchanged from half pay in Watteville's corps, 7 September,
  1818.

CHRISTOPHER ERIE.

  Second Lieutenant, 12 December, 1894.

JAMES ERSKINE.

  As Ensign, 24 July, 1722. Cornet, 2 November, 1722. Made
  Lieutenant, 23 April, 1742. Made Captain-Lieutenant, 27 May, 1742.

WILLIAM ERSKINE.

  Captain, 12 June, 1717. Major, 21 March, 1722-3. He is made
  Lieutenant-Colonel of "late Kerr's" Regiment, and is succeeded by
  Captain Sir Thomas Hay, on 6 February, 1740-1.

G. H. FALCONAR.

  Cornet, 2 November, 1809. Lieutenant by purchase, 21 November,
  1811, in place of Cunningham. Captain by purchase, 5 October, 1815.
  In 1816 on half pay.

  Led a squadron of the Greys at Waterloo. He was great-uncle to Col.
  Coventry Williams, lately commanding the regiment (see p. 258).

FRANCIS GLENNIE FARQUHAR.

  Cornet by purchase, 14 June, 1864. Lieutenant by purchase, 25
  September, 1867. Captain by purchase, 2 August, 1871. Major, 1
  July, 1881. Lieutenant-Colonel, 5 July, 1886.

PETER FARQUHARSON.

  Cornet in roll ending 24 June, 1761.

RICHARD TWISTLETON FAWCETT.

  Lieutenant, 27 April, 1815. Captain, 25 October, 1825. Retired, 23
  February, 1838.

CECIL WILLIAM MONTAGUE FEILDEN.

  Born, 13 January, 1863. Lieutenant, 2 August, 1882. Captain,
  14 February, 1891. A.D.C. (extra) to Lt.-Gen., and Gen. Gov.
  Ireland, 2 February, 1891, to 17 August, 1892. Ditto, 3 October,
  1892, to 8 July, 1895. Ditto, 30 July, 1895, to 31 October, 1895.
  Private Secretary to Commander-in-chief, 1 November, 1895, to 15
  January, 1897.

  Major, 1901. Served in South Africa, 1899; wounded 18th February,
  and died of wounds 20th February, 1902 (see p. 132).

WILLIAM LEYLAND FEILDEN.

  Cornet by purchase, 5 July, 1853.

THOMAS CHARLES FENTON.

  Captain, 6 April, 1815. (2 January, 1812, on half-pay in 4th
  Dragoons.) Retired, 24 June, 1819.

ROBERT ORDE FENWICK.

  Appointed Cornet, 5 August, 1803. Lieutenant, 27 February, 1806.
  Resigned, 24 June, 1807.

JOHN FERGUSSON.

  From Quartermaster-Sergeant, to Quartermaster, 12 April, 1864.
  Died, 27 September, 1871.

PATRICK FERGUSON.

  Cornet in the Lieutenant-Colonel's troop, in the Muster signed at
  Kelso, 13 August, 1763. In Muster Roll ending 26 December, 1768,
  promoted to be a Lieutenant in the 70th Regiment. Born in 1744,
  his father being James Ferguson of Pitfours, Aberdeenshire. He
  was taught fortification, gunnery, &c., in a military academy in
  London, and in 1759, before he was 15, was appointed a Cornet
  in the Greys. On 2nd December, 1776, he obtained a patent for
  improvements in Fire-arms. The patent covers several forms of
  breech action, the use of sliding back sights, and also a peculiar
  mode of rifling. After some successful public experiments at
  Woolwich, and before the King at Windsor, the inventor returned
  to his regiment, then quartered at Halifax, Nova Scotia, and was
  allowed to form a corps of riflemen with volunteers from regiments
  in America. The men were armed with breech-loading rifled carbines.
  This corps of riflemen, extended in front and supported by a corps
  of rangers, did good service in covering General Knyphausen's
  advance at the Battle of Brandywine, 11 September, 1777, when
  Ferguson received a severe wound. 26 October, 1779, he was made
  Major in the old 71st Highlanders, then in America. In Carolina
  under Lord Cornwallis, he was again wounded severely. At the fight
  of King's Mountain, on 9 October, 1780, he was surprised and
  killed. The D. N. B. concludes: "Ferguson is allowed by all to have
  been a generous, chivalrous soldier, but the partisan warfare in
  which he was engaged gave rise to rancorous feelings on both sides.
  It is alleged that indignities were offered to his mangled corpse
  and great barbarities practised on the wretched militiamen under
  him who were taken prisoners. Unable to show other marks of respect
  to his memory, Ferguson's brother officers published a notice of
  him in the form of a monumental epitaph in the _New York Gazette_,
  14 February, 1781."

PETER FERGUISON.

  Cornet in November, 1760.

TOWNLEY PATTEN HUME MACARTNEY FILGATE.

  Captain, 28 April, 1863, by exchange from 8th Hussars. Retired, 14
  February, 1865.

CONRAD WILLIAM CURLING FINZELL.

  Cornet by purchase, 14 February, 1864. Retired, 22 August, 1868.

WILLIAM FRANCIS FIRMSTONE.

  Cornet, 28 October, 1871. Sub-Lieutenant, 1 November, 1871.
  Lieutenant, 17 March, 1874. Resigned, 18 March, 1874.

RALPH BROMFIELD WILLINGTON FISHER.

  From unattached list. Sub-Lieutenant, 27 June, 1874. To 10th
  Hussars, 27 August.

  Fisher, R. B. W. (Lieut.-Col., 10th Hussars.) Afghan War,
  1878-9-80. Attack and capture of the Peiwar, Kotal, actions of
  Matun and Futtehabad. Operations in the Shutargardan. Affairs
  around Kabul and Sherpur; and march from Kabul to relief of
  Kandahar, and battle of 1 September. Despatches, _London Gazette_,
  4 May, and 3 December, 1880. Medal with 3 clasps: bronze star.
  Mahsood Wuzeeree Expedition, 1881. Transport Officer. Mentioned in
  Despatches.

PETER FRASER FLEMING.

  Born, 9 June, 1855. Quartermaster (honorary Lieutenant), 21
  February, 1894. "In the ranks 19 years, 135 days."

FITZROY CHARLES FLETCHER.

  Second Lieutenant, 27 August, 1879, from Highland R. Mil.
  Lieutenant, 8 November, 1880.

RANDAL FOOT.

  Cornet, 21 June, 1836, from half pay 6th Dragoon Guards.

ALEXANDER FORBES.

  1706 Quartermaster to Patrick Robertson's troop. Cornet, 26 May,
  1710. Lieutenant, 24 March, 1715-16. Captain, 9 August, 1721. Made
  Major, 27 May, 1742.

JOHN FORBES.

  Cornet, 5 July, 1735. Made Lieutenant, 23 April, 1742. Captain, 24
  September, 1744. Major, 3 February, 1746-7. Lieutenant-Colonel in
  the Army, 24 December, 1745, and Lieutenant-Colonel of the Greys,
  29 November, 1750. Made Colonel of the 17th Foot, 25 February,
  1757. In the same year he was sent to America as Adjutant-General,
  and on 28 December appointed a Brigadier there. He was entrusted
  with the capture of Fort Du Quesne. George Washington commanded the
  Virginians of his force. Forbes died at Philadelphia, 11 March,
  1759.

JOHN FORBES.

  Made Cornet, 25th December, 1755. Lieutenant in Muster ending
  24 June, 1763. Transferred in Muster ending 24 June, 1767, from
  Captain Home's troop to Major Douglas's troop. Resigned, 16 March,
  1770.

FRANCIS CHARLES FORDE.

  Cornet by purchase, 10 June, 1826. Lieutenant by purchase, 8 June,
  1830. Captain by purchase, 10 July, 1835. Retired, 28 December,
  1841.

GEORGE, LORD FORRESTER, +of Corstorphine+.

  Born 23 February, 1688. Cornet, 1 January, 1706-7. He served in
  Marlborough's campaigns, but did not stay long in the Greys. He
  became Lieutenant-Colonel of the 26th Regiment, the Cameronians,
  and in command of them was wounded at the battle of Preston, 13
  November, 1715. In 1716 he was promoted Colonel of the 30th Foot,
  and died on the 17th February, 1726.

  "In the attack on the rebels at Preston, 13 November, 1715,
  as Lieutenant-Colonel commanding the 26th, or Cameronians, he
  showed extraordinary intrepidity. Ordering his men to halt, he
  deliberately rode into the street with his drawn sword in his hand,
  and amidst a shower of bullets coolly examined one of the four
  barriers which had been raised by the insurgents. He then sallied
  into the street at the head of his men, and whilst with one party
  he attacked the barrier, another under his directions seized two
  houses which overlooked the whole town."

ROBERT STEIN FERLONG.

  Cornet from 13th Light Dragoons, 30 July, 1829. "To have the rank
  of Lieutenant, 22 May, 1835." Made Adjutant, 6 November, 1835.
  Resigned Adjutancy, 10 August, 1838. Captain by purchase, 26
  February, 1841. Retired, 29 December, 1843.

JOSEPH FORTESCUE.

  Cornet, 28 November, 1780. Lieutenant in Muster ending 24 December,
  1789.

CHARLES PERCIVAL FOSTER.

  Born 10 November, 1872. Second-Lieutenant, 29 May, 1895.
  Lieutenant, 16 September, 1896.

THOMAS FOWKE.

  Cornet, 9 March, 1757.

ANDREW FRAME.

  Quartermaster, 1706, in Major Boyd's troop.

JOHN FREEMAN.

  16 May, 1782, appointed Cornet in the Colonel's troop. Lieutenant,
  7 February, 1787.

JOHN ARTHUR FREEMAN.

  Cornet by purchase, 7 August, 1846. Lieutenant by purchase, 21
  June, 1850. Captain by purchase, 11 November, 1853. Died, 27
  September, 1854.

JOHN FREESTONE.

  Quartermaster, 1706.

JAMES CARNEGIE FULERTOUN.

  Captain, 2 May, 1793. In Muster ending 24 March, 1799, en second.

JOHN FURNIER.

  Cornet, 12 September, 1695, to 9 March, 1697-8.

(WILLIAM) GALLOWAY.

  Cornet, 15 June, 1716.

  The 3rd son of James, 5th Earl of Galloway and Catherine, daughter
  of the 9th Earl of Eglinton, is given by Burke, as "William, served
  as a Cavalry Officer. M.P., Wigtown Burghs."

JAMES GAPE.

  Cornet, 29 April, 1813. Lieutenant, 3 May, 1815. Captain by
  purchase, 19 January, 1817. Exchanged to half pay, unattached, 6
  December, 1833.

JAMES GARDINER.

  24 February, 1707-8, Lieutenant in Captain William Crawford's
  Additional Troop.

  The above entry in the original manuscript "Army List" at the
  Record Office was evidently unknown to the editors of the
  "Dictionary of National Biography," who have been careful to
  explain that the famous Colonel Gardiner killed at Prestonpans had
  not served in the Greys.

  In the same manuscript the Earl of Stair is recorded as Colonel,
  and this same William Crawford as Captain-Lieutenant commanding the
  Colonel's own troop. In the next MS. list, of about 1714, James
  Gardiner appears again.

  The chief points in Gardiner's life must be taken from the Rev.
  Dr. Doddridge's "Some remarkable passages in the Life of the Hon.
  Colonel James Gardiner, who was slain at the battle of Prestonpans,
  September 21, 1745." He was the son of Captain Patrick Gardiner,
  of Torwood Head, Linlithgowshire, and was born 10 January, 1687.
  At the early age of 14 he bore an ensign's commission in a Scotch
  Regiment in the Dutch service until 1702, when he received an
  Ensign's commission from Queen Anne. At the age of 19, in the
  battle of Ramillies, he received a wound in his mouth by a musket
  ball. "He was of a party in the forlorn hope, and was commanded on
  what seemed almost a desperate service, to dispossess the French of
  the churchyard at Ramillies, where a considerable number of them
  were posted to remarkable advantage. He planted his colours on an
  advanced ground, and while he was calling to his men, he received a
  shot into his mouth."

  Mr. Dalton has rightly recorded Gardiner as a Lieutenant in the
  Greys, and adds a note--"Master of the Horse to the Earl of
  Stair when that nobleman was sent Ambassador to France in 1715.
  Appointed Major of the Earl of Stair's Regiment of Dragoons (now
  the Inniskilling Dragoons), 14 January, 1717. Lieutenant-Colonel of
  the same Regiment, 4 January, 1730. Colonel of the Regiment now the
  13th Hussars, 18 April, 1743."

  On the 22nd July, 1715, at the battle of Preston, he headed a
  storming party of 12, and advancing to the barricades of the
  insurgents, set them on fire, in spite of a furious storm of
  musketry, by which 8 of his men were killed.

  I abridge from the "Dictionary of National Biography," and other
  sources, the following note of Colonel Gardiner's last fight:--On
  19 April, 1743, Gardiner became Colonel of the 13th Hussars, then
  quartered in East Lothian, in which district Gardiner had lately
  purchased a residence. On the outbreak, in 1745, Gardiner's and
  Hamilton's Dragoons were retained in the low country, while Cope
  set out to oppose the Pretender in the highlands. 14 August, 1745,
  four troops of Gardiner's Dragoons marched to Perth, but had to
  retreat, chiefly owing to the supineness of Cope and the fame of
  the Pretender's highlanders. On 20 September, 1745, the two armies
  sighted each other at Prestonpans, and the battle was fought the
  following morning. "Gardiner's Dragoons were posted on Cope's
  right wing, and after the discomforture of Whitney's Dragoons were
  ordered to charge the enemy, but after a faint fire only 11 obeyed
  the word of command, the others wheeling round and galloping from
  the field. The battle was irretrievably lost; but Gardiner, who had
  already been wounded by shots in the left breast and right thigh,
  seeing a party of infantry who were bravely fighting near him
  without an officer to head them, rode up to them crying out, 'Fire
  on, my lads, and fear nothing!' but at that moment he was cut down
  by three more wounds--one in his shoulder by a ball, another in his
  fore-arm by a broadsword, and the third was a blow on the head from
  a Lochaber axe. He was carried to the manse of Tranent, and lived
  until the forenoon of the next day."

JOHN GARDNER.

  Cornet, 12 May, 1797. Retired, 3 October, 1798.

DAVID GARIOCH.

  On 30 March, 1685, appointed Cornet of Major Wedderburne's troop.

GEORGE GARIOCH.

  Lieutenant in one of the Additional Troops, 1 January, 1693-4 to 1
  March, 1697-8.

JOHN FRANCIS UPTON GASKELL.

  From 6th Dragoon Guards. Captain, 29 December, 1877.

JOHN GORDON GEDDES.

  Lieutenant-Colonel from half-pay, 27 August, 1852, retiring the
  same day.

---- GEDDES.

  Cornet, 24 March, 1715-16.

DAVID GIBSON.

  From Sergeant to Cornet, without purchase (on augmentation), 5
  November, 1854. In 1856 promoted to a Lieutenancy in the Military
  Train.

JOHN GIBSON.

  Quartermaster, 25 May, 1760.

THOMAS GILBERT.

  Cornet, 29 November, 1750. Resigns, 29 May, 1754.

JAMES GILBRAITH.

  Appointed Quartermaster, 28 July, 1761. Sold out, 25 March,
  1762. In the Muster Roll, at Hammersmith, 22 January, 1763,
  is recorded:--Quartermaster James Gilbraith promoted in 104th
  Regiment, March 26.

---- GILL.

  Surgeon, 10 December, 1794. Retired, 30 June, 1795.

JOHN GILLIES.

  Cornet from Sergeant-Major (and Riding Master), 25 October, 1825.
  Lieutenant by purchase, 8 October, 1830. Retired on half-pay,
  unattached, 10 May, 1839.

ANDREW GILLON.

  Cornet in Lieutenant-Colonel Douglas's troop, 17 September,
  1778. Transferred to the Colonel's troop, 7 July, 1779. Promoted
  Lieutenant, 20 March, 1780. Captain-Lieutenant, 18 July, 1787.
  Captain, 28 July, 1790. In the muster ending 24 December, 1794,
  Gillon, as well as Ker, are entered as Majors. 3 April, 1801, Major
  Andrew Gillon retired.

JAMES GIRVAN.

  Quartermaster, 1795. Retired, 28 February, 1797.

ADAM GLENDINING.

  Quartermaster, 1 October, 1799. Promoted Cornet in Royal Wagon
  Train, 9 January, 1806.

SAMUEL GODDARD.

  Appointed Quartermaster in the Colonel's troop, 27 February, 1775.
  Transferred to the 20th Light Dragoons, 1 May, 1779.

JOHN GODLY.

  Appointed Quartermaster, 24 July, 1786. In Roll, December, 1797, to
  February, 1798, described as en second.

THOMAS GONNE.

  Cornet by purchase, 25 November, 1855. Lieutenant by purchase, 11
  September, 1857. Exchanged to 17th Dragoons, 17 November, 1857.

CHARLES GORDON.

  Chaplain, 23 March, 1797.

GEORGE GORDON.

  Cornet by purchase, 8 June, 1830. Lieutenant by purchase, 10 July,
  1835.

HENRY GORDON.

  Cornet in Sir Robert Hay's troop, 24 October, 1706.

LORD ROBERT GORDON.

  Made a Cornet, 18 September, 1741.

THOMAS GORDON.

  Born at Cairness, 8 December, 1788, son of Charles Gordon, of
  Buthlau. Was at Eton, 1800 to 1804. Matriculated at Brasenose
  College, Oxford, 20 January, 1806. Cornet in the Greys 10 December,
  1807. Lieutenant in March, 1809, and before the close of the year
  exchanged into the 43rd Regiment. In 1810 he quitted the British
  service and started on foreign travel. In 1813 he served as Captain
  on the Staff of the Russian army. In 1816 he was at Constantinople
  and married Barbara Kana, afterwards Baroness de Pedaiges, a lady
  of Armenian Greek extraction. In 1821 the war of Greek independence
  began, and he served as _chef d'état_ major under Ipsilanti. He
  took an active part at the siege of Tripoliza, and after the town
  was taken he remonstrated against the treacherous massacre by
  the Greeks of several thousand Turks. His representations being
  disregarded, he quitted the service. At last, after many urgent
  requests that he would join the Greek service again, he, in May,
  1826, returned to promote unity and military discipline. In
  January, 1827, he accepted the command of the expedition to the
  Piræus with the local rank of Brigadier. His aim was to relieve
  Athens, then blockaded by Kutahi. Gordon successfully landed his
  troops at Port Phalerus "under the nose of Reshid Pasha." On 11
  February the Turks made a determined attack, but were driven
  back with great slaughter. Finding that Athens was still able to
  hold out, he wished to resign, but was induced to continue upon
  condition of receiving supplies and being "entirely master of his
  own operations." He continued until the arrival of General Church
  to take over supreme command as generalissimo. On April 16 Gordon
  was appointed Director-General of the Ordnance Department. On May
  6 the disastrous battle before Athens put an end to all organised
  military operations by the Greeks in the Morea. The battle of
  Navarino soon ended the struggle. In 1832 was published in London
  his "History of the Greek Revolution," a work of great value. On
  the formation of the Greek Kingdom he was appointed Colonel _à la
  suite_ and Colonel on the Staff of the Greek army. On 7 July, 1835,
  he was appointed Major-General. He died at Cairness, 20 April, 1841.

JOHN BLOOMFIELD GOUGH, C.B. (+Lieutenant-General+).

  Colonel, 31 January, 1864. Lieutenant-General in the Army, 9
  November, 1862. K.C.B., 1866.

  "Gough, Sir J. B. (General, retired list)." China War, 1840-2.
  Capture of Canton, Amoy, Ningpo, Chapoo and Nankin. Despatches,
  _London Gazette_, 8 October, 1841, 11 February, 3 September,
  18 October, and 11 November, 1842. Medal. Brevets of Major and
  Lieutenant-Colonel. C. B.

  Gwalior campaign, 1843-4. Battle of Maharajpore. Despatches,
  _London Gazette_, 8 March, 1844. Bronze star.

  Sutlej campaign, 1845-6. Battles of Moodkee, Ferozeshah, Sobraon
  (severely wounded). Despatches, _London Gazette_, 23 February and 1
  April, 1846. Medal, with two clasps.

  Punjaub campaign, 1848-9. Battle of Chillianwallah and Goojerat.
  Despatches, _London Gazette_, 3 March and 19 April, 1849. Medal,
  with two clasps. A.D.C. to the Queen.

FREDERICK GOULBURN.

  Captain by purchase, 6 April, 1815. 12 July, 1810, on half-pay in
  13th Dragoons, apparently.

FREDERICK ULRIC GRAHAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 29 March, 1844. Soon transferred to 1st Life
  Guards.

JAMES REGINALD TOVIN GRAHAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 20 January, 1814. Lieutenant by purchase, 8
  June, 1815. Captain by purchase, 16 March, 1820. On half-pay, 1821.
  Retired, 5 April, 1844.

---- GRANT.

  Cornet, 1702.

ALEXANDER GRANT.

  Captain, 1 April, 1692, to 31 March, 1694.

WALTER COLQUHOUN GRANT.

  Cornet by purchase, 26 February, 1841. Lieutenant by purchase, 7
  April, 1843. Captain by purchase, 18 April, 1845. Exchanged to 47th
  Foot, 9 June, 1838.

SIR WILLIAM KEIR GRANT, K.C.B., G.C.H., +Lieut.-Gen.+

  Colonel from the 8th Dragoons, 24 August, 1839. Lieutenant-General
  in the Army, 27 May, 1825. Died, 7 May, 1852.

THOMAS PRICE GRATRIX.

  Cornet, exchanged from 1st Life Guards, 20 April, 1848. Lieutenant
  by purchase, 9 May, 1851. Exchanged to 14th Light Dragoons, 12
  November, 1852.

JOHN UPPLEBY GRAYBURN.

  Cornet without purchase, from Northampton Militia, 7 March, 1856.

PATRICK GREY.

  Cornet, 1 April, 1692, to 31 December, 1693. Lieutenant, 1 January,
  1693-4, to 12 May, 1697-8.

WILLIAM GRAY, +The Honourable+.

  Cornet, 16 March, 1770. In 1775 transferred from Captain Telfer's
  troop to the Colonel's troop. Promoted Lieutenant, 22 May, 1776, in
  Captain Ramsay's troop. Appointed Captain-Lieutenant in 15th Light
  Dragoons, 17 May, 1779.

  (William John, 14th Lord Gray. Died unmarried, 12 December, 1807,
  in his 54th year.)

JOHN GREY.

  From the 10th Light Dragoons. Major, 1 October, 1821, by purchase.
  Lieutenant-Colonel by purchase, 25 October, 1825. Exchanged to
  half-pay, unattached, 23 March, 1832.

JOHN GRIEVE, V.C.

  Cornet from Sergeant-Major, without purchase, 4 December, 1857.
  Augmentation. Adjutant, 18 February, 1859. Lieutenant, 30 January,
  1863. Retired, 26 May, 1865.

HENRY DARBY GRIFFITH.

  Captain, exchanging from the 33rd Foot, 14 June, 1839. Major by
  purchase, 6 November, 1846. Lieutenant-Colonel by purchase, 27
  August, 1852. Wounded slightly, _Gazette_, 12 November, 1854.
  Colonel in the Army, 28 November, 1854, and also Aide-de-Camp to
  the Queen. Appointed Colonel of the Greys, 31 March, 1866. Also
  appointed Major-General in the Army.

JOHN GRIFFITHS.

  Quartermaster in Captain Law's troop, in Muster ending 24 June,
  1760. Transferred to Captain Napier's troop in Muster ending 24
  June, 1768.

EMANUEL GRISTOCK.

  Surgeon, 2 April, 1788. Retired, 8 July, 1788.

JOHN HALL.

  Cornet, 9 January, 1806. Lieutenant, 25 June, 1807. Captain, 1812,
  by purchase, in place of Lawrence Johnson, retired. In 1814 retired.

ALEXANDER HAMILTON.

  Made a Cornet, 23 April, 1742.

ARCHIBALD HAMILTON.

  Lieutenant, 16 March, 1815. On half-pay in 4th Dragoons, 11 June,
  1812.

DIGBY HAMILTON.

  Adjutant in Muster ending 24 December, 1785. Cornet's commission,
  21 June, 1786. Lieutenant, 3 June, 1791. Captain-Lieutenant, 24
  June, 1795. Retired, 18 February, 1796.

JAMES CAMPBELL HAMILTON.

  From 5th Dragoon Guards. Second Lieutenant, 13 November, 1878.
  Lieutenant, 19 May, 1880.

JAMES INGLIS HAMILTON.

  Cornet, 15 May, 1793. Lieutenant, 4 October, 1793. June, 1800,
  Captain. Appointed, 17 February, 1803, Major, without a troop.
  From August, 1805, apparently Major with a troop. 16 June, 1807,
  appointed Lieutenant-Colonel. 4 June, 1814, received the rank of
  Colonel in the Army. Killed, 15 June, 1815.

JOHN HAMILTON.

  Quartermaster, 1762. In Muster Roll ending 24 December,
  1775:--"Promoted Cornet in 17th Regiment of Dragoons." In Muster
  Roll ending 24 December, 1782:--"Captain-Lieutenant John Hamilton."

JOHN POTTER HAMILTON.

  Quartermaster. "From half-pay. Appointed 23 May, 1786, and retired,
  20 June." Then, in the Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1794, John
  Hamilton appears as appointed a Cornet, 26 March, 1794. Lieutenant,
  13 August, 1794. Captain-Lieutenant, 16 August, 1799. Appointed
  Captain, 3 May, 1800. Appointed Major in Hompesch's Dragoons, 27
  February, 1802.

WILLIAM HAMILTON.

  Promoted, 12 February, 1806, from Sergeant-Major to Quartermaster.

[Illustration: +Lt.-Colonel Sir Thomas Hankin, present with the Greys
at Waterloo.+

Reproduced and enlarged from a cabinet photograph given to Dr.
Campbell, Edinburgh, by Colonel Hankin, West India Regiment, grandson
of Sir Thomas. The original portrait in oils is in the hands of a lady
in the female line of the Hankin Family, address unknown.]

SIR GEORGE FRANCIS HAMPSON, +Bart.+

  Cornet by purchase, 5 August, 1842. Lieutenant by purchase, 18
  April, 1845. Captain by purchase, 24 September, 1847. Retired, 12
  July, 1857.

  9th Baronet, being the son of Sir George Francis, 8th Baronet and
  his wife, Mary Forman, daughter of Admiral William Brown.

HENRY EDWARDES HANDLEY.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 September, 1853. Lieutenant (on
  augmentation), without purchase, 29 December, 1854. Retired, 30
  July, 1858.

SIR THOMAS PATE HANKIN.

  Cornet, 22 July, 1795. Lieutenant, 3 August, 1796. En second in
  Muster ending 24 October, 1798. Major, 4 April, 1808. Rank of
  Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, 4 June, 1814. Lieutenant-Colonel by
  purchase, in succession to I. G. Clarke retired, 11 October, 1821.
  Knighted, 31 August, 1822. Retired, 25 October, 1825.

THOMAS C. HARDY.

  Cornet, 6 July, 1792. "Appointed Captain to an Independent Company."

CLAUDIUS S. HARRIS.

  Second-Lieutenant, 8 December, 1880. Lieutenant, 1 July, 1881.
  Captain, 18 July, 1888.

JOHN COLLINSON HARRISON.

  Born 9 August, 1869.

  Second-Lieutenant, 5 June, 1889. Lieutenant, 23 May, 1891.

  South Africa, 1899-1901; died 3rd September, at Pretoria, of wound
  received in the action near Belfast on 26th August, 1901 (see pp.
  100-1).

CHALONER HAWKE, +The Honourable+.

  Cornet, 14 August, 1775, in Captain George Ramsay's Troop. Died, 17
  September, 1777.

ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL DOUGLAS HAWKESLEY.

  Lieutenant, 26 July, 1853, by exchange from 2nd Life Guards.
  Retired, 13 September, 1853.

FRANCIS HAWKSWORTH.

  Lieutenant, 5 February, 1794.

FRANCIS HENRY TOOVEY HAWLEY.

  Born 10 August, 1860. Second-Lieutenant, 11 August, 1880.
  Lieutenant, 29 June, 1881. Captain, 1 October, 1887. Adjutant, 18
  January, 1892. Major, 3 April, 1897.

  South Africa, 1899-1900; died at Bloemfontein, 27th April, 1900.

SIR ALEXANDER HAY.

  Cornet, 25 December, 1778. Promoted, "Lieutenant to Colonel
  Stewart's Regiment of Foot, 27 November, 1780."

ANDREW HAY.

  Cornet, 15 February, 1695-6, to 12 March, 1697-8.

GEORGE HAY.

  Cornet, 24 December, 1726.

LOUIS HAY.

  19 June, 1688, commission to be Cornet in the Earl of Dunmore's
  Troop.

LORD JOHN HAY.

  Son of the second Marquis of Tweeddale.

  Captain, 1 April, 1692, to 7 September, 1692. Major, 8 September,
  1692, to 31 March, 1694. Lieutenant-Colonel and Captain, 1 April,
  1694 to 12 March, 1697-8. "1702--The Lord Viscount Tiviot's
  Regiment of Dragoons--Colonel Lord John Hay."

                              "+Camp at Helchin, 26 August, 1706.+

  "To Mr. Secretary Harley.

  "I have not received the favour of any letter from you since my
  last. Yesterday we had the satisfaction to see the garrison of
  Menin march out to the number of about 4,300 men, besides the
  sick and wounded, which could not yet be transported for want of
  conveniency. We have put 5 battalions into the place under the
  command of Major-General Welderen; and while the neighbourhood of
  the French army obliges us to continue here to level our works and
  repair the breaches at Menin, we have ordered some cannon, with a
  detachment, to attack Dendermonde. The troops will be all before
  the place to-morrow or Saturday. My brother Churchill is appointed
  to command the siege, and if the dry weather hold, I hope we shall
  in a few days be masters of the town, which will secure the Pays de
  Waes and a good part of Brabant.

  "Yesterday Lord John Hay, Colonel of the royal regiment of Scots
  Dragoons, died of a lingering fever, after about twenty days'
  illness, being generally regretted through the whole army. I fear
  we shall have ill news from our fleet after this violent storm of
  wind.

  "I am, Sir, yours, &c.,
              "+Marlborough+."


PETER HAY.

  Muster ending 24 June, 1798, Cornet en second. Appointed Lieutenant
  (in Captain Balfour's troop), 4 May, 1800. Appointed Captain in
  26th Dragoons, 21 August, 1801.

SIR ROBERT HAY.

  1 January, 1693-4, made Captain of Foot and joined this Regiment of
  Dragoons as Captain, 24 June, 1706. Made Brevet-Major, 1 November,
  1711. Major, 16 September, 1715. Lieutenant-Colonel, 12 June, 1717.
  Retires, and is succeeded by Major Sir Thomas Hay, 27 May, 1742.

SIR THOMAS HAY, +Baronet+.

  Cornet, 1 June, 1717. Captain, 11 June, 1720. Made Major, 6
  February, 1740-1, and on 27 May, 1742, Lieutenant-Colonel.

  Sir John Hay, the first Baronet, married Catherine, daughter of Sir
  George Suttie, Baronet. He died in 1706.

  Second Baronet of Nova Scotia. Died without issue, 26 November,
  1769.

F. H. HAYNES.

  Honorary Captain. Paymaster, 1881.

JOSEPH HELY.

  From 7th Dragoon Guards. Cornet, 27 June, 1826.

JOHN LEWIS VAUGHAN HENRY.

  Sub-Lieutenant, 23 April, 1873. Lieutenant, 23 April, 1874.
  Captain, 29 June, 1881.

ALEXANDER HEPBURN.

  Cornet, 18 September, 1741.

WILLIAM HEPBURN.

  "Major William Hepburn, from half-pay in Ancaster's, made Captain
  (in succession to I. M. Campbell), 24 July, 1754."

RICHARD AUSTIN HERBERT.

  Cornet without purchase, 21 May, 1858 (augmentation). Retired, 3
  June, 1859.

ERNEST FREDERICK HERITAGE.

  Second Lieutenant, 1 February, 1888.

ANTHONY HERON.

  Cornet, 29 May, 1745. Lieutenant, 30 September, 1746. Captain,
  29 November, 1750. Died, and was succeeded by John Douglas, 11
  January, 1755.

BASIL HERON.

  Cornet, 11 January, 1755. Lieutenant, in Roll ending 24 June, 1760.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 24 April, 1762. Lieutenant, 24 April, 1762. In
  Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1763, Captain (Lieutenant) of Colonel
  the Duke of Argyll's Troop. Promoted Captain, 14 November, 1770. In
  Muster Roll, ending 24 June, 1779, he is promoted Major. Retired,
  27 July, 1790.

[Illustration: +Lieutenant-Colonel Hippisley.+

Commanding the Greys from September, 1900, to June, 1902.

Served with the Nile Expedition, 1884-5, in command of a detachment of
the Scots Greys attached to the Heavy Camel Regiment, and took part in
the operations of the desert column, including the action at Abu Klea,
and the reconnaissance to Matemmeh--Medal with two clasps and Khedive's
Star. South Africa, 1899-1902, including operations near Modder River.
Appointed to command of the regiment March 23rd, 1901, and took part in
all the subsequent operations.]

AUGUSTUS WILLIAM HEYMAN.

  Cornet by purchase, 5 October, 1815. Lieutenant by purchase, 14
  October, 1819. Captain by purchase, 25 November, 1824. Retired, 8
  October, 1830.

FREDERICK DRUMMOND HIBBERT.

  Cornet by purchase, 29 December, 1843. Lieutenant by purchase, 7
  August, 1846. Retired, 11 April, 1851.

LORD ARTHUR W. M. HILL.

  Captain 10 September, 1816. Major in the Army, 27 July, 1815.
  Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, 21 January, 1819. Major by
  purchase, 25 October, 1825. Appointed Lieutenant-Colonel, 23 March,
  1832. Appointed Colonel in the Army, 10 January, 1837. Also he
  became Lord Sandys, and 29 December, 1837, exchanged to half-pay,
  unattached.

CHARLES HILL.

  Cornet by purchase, 11 September, 1857. Lieutenant by purchase, 2
  September, 1862. Retired, 17 November, 1863.

LORD WILLIAM FREDERICK ARTHUR MONTAGUE HILL.

  Lieutenant from the 43rd Foot, 10 May, 1839. Captain, 7 April,
  1843. Died, 18 March, 1844.

WILLIAM HENRY HIPPISLEY.

  Born, 1 December, 1855. From 7th Hussars. Sub-Lieutenant, 29
  January, 1876. (Commission in the Army, 22 May, 1875.) Lieutenant
  (and Adjutant), 29 January, 1876. Captain, 1 June, 1884. Major, 28
  June, 1893. On 5 July, 1896, appointed "second in command."

  South African War, 1879. Zulu campaign. Medal, with clasp.

GEORGE HOBART.

  Cornet from half-pay, 11th Light Dragoons, 23rd March, 1820.
  Lieutenant by purchase, 21 July, 1825. Promoted to Captain,
  half-pay, unattached, 17 December, 1829. Major, by purchase, 2
  April, 1841. Retired, 7 April, 1843.

---- HODGSON.

  Cornet, 11 July, 1811. Lieutenant, 10 December, 1814.

DENNIS HOLLINGWORTH.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 January, 1822.

DAVID HOME.

  Cornet, 17 December, 1754. Made Lieutenant 19 March, 1757.
  Captain in Muster ending 24 June, 1760. In the Musters from 24
  December, 1772, he is Captain and Major:--Major Napier (now Lord
  Napier) still continuing Major. David Home's Commission as Major
  is stated to be dated 3 November, 1774. On Muster ending 24
  June, 1779, David Home appears as Lieutenant-Colonel, and Basil
  Heron as Major. In Roll ending 24 December, 1794, Home appears
  as "Absent by the King's leave," and I. H. Boardman is evidently
  as Lieutenant-Colonel, commanding the Regiment, now abroad. In
  December, 1802, Lieutenant-Colonel David Home appointed Colonel of
  the "2nd Garrison Battalion."

JOHN PURVES HOME.

  Cornet, 25 May, 1809. Lieutenant, 8 August, 1811, without purchase,
  in place of Legge. In 1814 retired.

JOHN ORD HONYMAN.

  Cornet, 12 December, 1811. In 1813 appointed to 1st Foot Guards.

---- HOSIER.

  Cornet by purchase, 25 May, 1815. Retired, 1816.

JAMES H. HOULDSWORTH.

  Second Lieutenant, 9 January, 1889. Lieutenant, 15 October, 1890.

JOHN WALLACE HOZIER.

  Born in 1834, a younger brother of W. W. Hozier. Cornet by
  purchase, 17 December, 1858. Lieutenant by purchase, 17 November,
  1863. Adjutant and Lieutenant, 29 May, 1866. Captain by purchase,
  30 June, 1869. Major, 31 January 1878, Lieutenant-Colonel, 21 June,
  1880.

WILLIAM WALLACE HOZIER.

  Cornet by purchase, 5 April, 1844. Lieutenant by purchase, 6
  November, 1846. Retired, 9 May, 1851.

  The eldest son of James Hozier, Deputy-Lieutenant for the County
  of Lanark and Catherine Margaret, daughter of Sir William Feilden,
  Baronet: he was born in 1825 and married Frances Ann, daughter of
  James O'Hara, Esq., of Raheen, County Galway.

WILLIAM HARTOP HULL.

  Cornet by purchase, 4 April, 1822. Lieutenant, 25 October, 1825.
  Captain by purchase, 8 October, 1830. Retired, 10 July, 1835.

JOHN WILLIAM HUMPHREY.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 May, 1866. Retired, 11 January, 1867.

THOMAS HUNT.

  Cornet without purchase, 26 October, 1858. (Augmentation.)
  Lieutenant by purchase, 28 April, 1863. Captain by purchase, 3
  February, 1869. Retired, 2 August, 1871.

ROBERT HUNTER.

  Captain, 1 April, 1694, to 12 March, 1697.

ROBERT SCOTT HUNTER.

  Cornet by purchase, 17 June, 1851. Lieutenant without purchase,
  17 February, 1854. Captain without purchase, 13 September, 1855.
  Exchanged to 6th Dragoon Guards, 17 June, 1859.

JOHN INGLIS.

  21 May, 1678, Commission to be Captain of one of the three
  Independent Companies of Dragoons raised. 25 November, 1681,
  Commission as Captain on the companies being regimented.

---- INGLIS.

  Appointed Ensign of Captain John Inglis's Company, 3 December, 1684.

JAMES INNES.

  In 1681 made Ensign of Murray's Company. On 30 March, 1685,
  appointed Cornet of Lord Charles Murray's troop.

ROBERT INNES.

  Cornet by purchase, 6 April, 1815. Lieutenant by purchase, 10
  October, 1816. Captain by purchase, 24 October, 1821.

WILLIAM, LORD INVERURY.

  Cornet, 7 February, 1787. Retired, 2 June, 1791.

  William (Keith-Falconer), Earl of Kintore, &c. Born, 11 December,
  1766, at Inglisma'die, County Kincardine, styled Lord Inverurie
  till he succeeded to the peerage, 30 August, 1804. He married,
  18 June, 1793, at Aberdeen, Maria, daughter of Sir Alexander
  Bannerman. He died, 6 October, 1812, at Keith Hall, aged 45. His
  widow died 30 June, 1826.

JAMES IRVING.

  In 1681 Surgeon, and reappointed Surgeon, 30 March, 1685.

BASIL JACKSON.

  Quartermaster, 1795. Promoted Cornet, Royal Waggon Train, 10
  January, 1804.

PETER NEVILL JACKSON.

  Surgeon, from 31st Foot, 22 December, 1869. Died, 14 May, 1872.

GEORGE THOMSON JACOB.

  Cornet, 11 May, 1839, from half-pay, 3rd Dragoon Guards.

CHARLES JAMES.

  Cornet, "by purchase, 21 May, 1812, for the benefit of Captain
  Hutton, late of the 4th Dragoon Guards." Lieutenant by purchase,
  5 April, 1815. Captain by purchase, 3 December, 1818. Retired, 4
  April, 1822.

GEORGE JAMES.

  Cornet, 10 June, 1795. Lieutenant, 3 May, 1800. Captain, 16 June,
  1807. Major by purchase, 3 December, 1818. Retired, 16 March, 1820.

WILLIAM CHRISTOPHER JAMES.

  Sub-Lieutenant, 28 February, 1874. Lieutenant, 28 February, 1874.
  Captain, 22 December, 1880.

  South African War, 1879. Zulu Campaign. Battle of Ulundi (slightly
  wounded). Despatches, _London Gazette_, 21 August, 1879. Medal with
  clasp. Egyptian Expedition, 1882. Aide-de-Camp to General Officer
  commanding the First Division. Actions of El Magfar, Tel-el-Mahuta,
  Kassassin of 9 September, battle of Tel-el-Kebir. Despatches,
  _London Gazette_, 2 November, 1882. Medal with clasp; bronze star.
  Brevet of Major. 4th class Medjidie.

  Soudan Expedition, 1885. Suakim. In command of Camel Corps.
  Despatches, _London Gazette_, 25 August, 1885. Clasp.

JOHN JEBB.

  From the 29th Foot. Appointed Lieutenant, 7 March, 1805. Resigned,
  8 January, 1806.

THOMAS JESSOP.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 October, 1860. Lieutenant by purchase, 19
  July, 1864. Captain by purchase, 28 May, 1870. Retired, 23 October,
  1875.

WALTER JOHNSON.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 October, 1866. Lieutenant by purchase, 19
  January, 1870. Retired, 10 January, 1872.

GEORGE JOHNSTON.

  Quartermaster in Roll ending 24 June, 1760. Sold out, 2 April, 1784.

JAMES JOHNSTON.

  "2nd Cornet James Johnston, from half-pay in Crawford's, 27
  November, 1752." James Johnston is made Lieutenant 18 November,
  1755. In Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1763, noted as received from
  the Light Troop into Captain William Napier's Troop. Resigned, 6
  March, 1766.

JAMES JOHNSTON.

  Surgeon, 3 November, 1769. Resigned, 2 May, 1780.

LIEUTENANT-GENERAL JAMES JOHNSTON.

  Colonel, 1785. Died, 26 November, 1795.

LAURENCE JOHNSTON.

        (The "t" omitted in printed Army List, 1812).

  Cornet, 27 January, 1797. Lieutenant, June, 1802. Captain, 17
  February, 1803. Retired in 1812.

MONTAGUE GEORGE JOHNSTON.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 June, 1870. Lieutenant by purchase, 2
  August, 1871. Captain, 31 January, 1878. Major, 5 July, 1888.

  Served with the Bechuanaland Expedition, 1884-5, on the
  Headquarters Staff, and raised upwards of 100 men for the 2nd
  Mounted Rifles (Carrington's Horse).

RICHARD JOHNSTON.

  Cornet, 14 November, 1770.

WILLIAM JOHNSTON.

  Appointed Quartermaster, 29 September, 1786. Appointed Lieutenant
  in the Royal Corps of Waggoners, 26 February, 1794.

H. G. JOHNSTONE.

  Captain, 12 August. Retired, 24 November, 1795.

OWEN GOODMAN JONES.

  Surgeon in Muster ending 24 June, 1763. Resigned, 19 February, 1765.

RICHARD J. JONES.

  Surgeon, 1 July, 1795. Resigned, 4 August, 1814.

ROBERT JONES.

  Cornet, 6 April, 1791. Lieutenant, 21 February, 1793. Retired, 11
  November, 1794.

GIDEON KEITH.

  Lieutenant, 1702. Captain by Brevet, 1 January, 1706-7.

A. K. CLARK KENNEDY, C.B.

  Lieutenant-General. From 6th Dragoon Guards. Colonel, 17 July,
  1860. Died, 30 January, 1864.

JAMES KENNEDY.

  Cornet, 31 May, 1715.

LOCKHART MURE HARTLEY KENNEDY.

  From Ceylon Rifles Regiment, Lieutenant, 5 April, 1871. Lieutenant
  in the Army, 27 April, 1870. Captain, 24 February, 1877. Half-pay,
  15 September, 1877.

GABRIEL KENYON.

  Cornet, 31 August, 1815. Exchanged (19 March), 1818, to 58th Foot.

JAMES KER.

  Cornet, 22 July, 1795. Lieutenant, 9 February, 1797. Captain, 23
  June, 1803. Retires, 15 July, 1813.

JOHN KERR.

  Quartermaster, 25 March, 1776. Retired, 12 June, 1786.

JOHN KERR.

  Cornet, 1 April, 1692, to 11 September, 1695. Captain (?) 12
  September, 1695, to yᵉ 27th April, 1697.

---- KERR.

  Cornet, 15 June, 1716. Succeeded by Thomas Hay.

JOHN S. KERR.

  Lieutenant, 24 March, 1790. Captain, 21 February, 1793. In Muster
  Roll ending 24 December, 1794, Gillon, as well as Kerr, is entered
  as a Major. Died, 25 June, 1795.

FRANCIS CHARLTON KINCHANT.

  Cornet by purchase, 18 January, 1815. Killed at Waterloo.

ANDREW KING.

  4 April, 1704, Cornet. Lieutenant in Patrick Robertson's troop, 10
  July, 1706. Captain-Lieutenant, 24 March, 1715.

JOHN HENRY KING.

  Paymaster, 27 March, 1857, exchanging from the 2nd Dragoon Guards.
  Paymaster in the Army, 10 April, 1855, and Lieutenant in the Army,
  31 December, 1853. Honorary Captain, 10 April, 1860. Honorary
  Major, 10 April, 1865. Retired, 17 April, 1866, to half-pay.

"---- KINNAIRD.

  Lawful son to George, Lord Kinnard of Inchture, appointed to be
  Ensign of Sir James Turner's Company."

  Sir George Kinnaird of Inchture, a steady loyalist during the
  Civil Wars, was knighted by Charles II., 1661. He represented the
  county of Perth in the Scots' Parliament, and was sworn a Privy
  Councillor on 28 December, 1682; he was raised to the peerage, as
  Lord Kinnaird of Inchture. He died, 29 September, 1689. He was
  descended from Radulphus, on whom King William the Lion bestowed,
  in 1170, the barony of Kinnaird. Richard de Kinnaird, the great
  grandson of Radulphus, was one of the Scots barons who swore fealty
  to Edward I., in 1296, as did also his son, Radulphus. (See Rymer's
  _Foedera_, 1304.) Reginald, 2nd son of the latter's grandson,
  married Margery, heiress of Sir John Kirkaldy, of Inchture. George,
  Lord Kinnaird, was ninth in direct descent from this union.

JOHN KIRKWOOD.

  Quartermaster, 3 January, 1796. Promoted Cornet Royal Waggon Train,
  11 January, 1804.

GEORGE KNOX.

  Quartermaster in George Sheen's troop. Cornet, 31 May, 1715.

LAUDER.

  In 1681 made Lieutenant in Major Sir James Turner's Company.

GEORGE LAUDER.

  1706, Quartermaster in Lieutenant-Colonel James Campbell's troop.
  Cornet, 31 May, 1715.

LEWIS LAUDER.

  In 1681 Ensigne of Inglis's Company. Appointed Lieutenant of
  Captain John Inglis's Company, 5 December, 1684. On 30 March,
  1685, appointed Lieutenant of Major John Wedderburne's troop. 11
  December, 1688, commission to be Lieutenant of Captain Blair's
  troop.

MUNGO LAW.

  Cornet, 22 February, 1744-5. Lieutenant, 23 July, 1748, in the
  Army. Lieutenant, 13 September, 1754, in this Regiment. Captain in
  Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1760.

GEORGE LAWLER.

  Cornet in Captain Mungo Law's troop in Muster, at Chichester,
  ending 24 June, 1766.

WILLIAM LAWRENCE.

  Quartermaster, 1706, in Colonel the Earl of Stair's troop. 24
  February, 1707-8, made Cornet in Captain William Crawford's
  Additional Troop. Lieutenant, 11 June, 1720. Captain-Lieutenant, 24
  September, 1733. Died, 1740.

ALGERNON LAWSON.

  Born, 16 December, 1869. Lieutenant, 11 January, 1893. Lieutenant
  in the Army, 28 December, 1892. (The foregoing entry in the April,
  1893, printed Army List seems a mistake, as in the July List
  he is entered with these dates, but as only a 2nd Lieutenant.)
  Lieutenant, 13 June, 1894. Served in the South African War in
  1899-1900 on the Staff, and was present at the relief of Kimberley;
  and took part in the operations in the Orange Free State from
  February to May, 1900, including engagement at Paardeberg, and
  actions at Poplar Grove, Driefontein, Karree Siding, and Zand
  River; the operations in the Transvaal in May and June, 1900,
  including actions near Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Diamond Hill;
  and in the operations in the Transvaal, east of Pretoria, including
  action at Belfast (mentioned in despatches); in the Transvaal
  west of Pretoria, July to 29 November, 1900; in the Transvaal 30
  November, 1900, to May, 1901; and in Cape Colony May, 1901, to 31
  May, 1902 (twice mentioned in despatches). Medal with six clasps;
  King's medal with two clasps.

WILLIAM NICHOLAS LEADER.

  From the 13th Foot. Sub-Lieutenant, 26 July, 1876. Lieutenant, 26
  July, 1876. Resigned, 19 May, 1880.

LEVER LEGGE.

  Cornet, 12 September, 1816.

LEVER LEGGE.

  Cornet, 6 June, 1805. Lieutenant, September, 1806. Captain, 13
  June, 1811. Retired, 1815.

JOHN LEIGH.

  Cornet, 7 February, 1787. Lieutenant, 6 July, 1792. Retired, 19
  February, 1793.

THOMAS LEIGH.

  Brevet, as Captain, 11 May, 1708. Captain, 25 December, 1726.

ALEXANDER LEISHMAN.

  Quartermaster, 1 May, 1779. Retired, 23 September, 1786.

JAMES LEITH, V.C.

  By exchange from 6th Dragoons, Captain, 18 January, 1859. Major in
  the Army, 28 July, 1858. Retired on half-pay, 31 December, 1861.

JOHN LENNOX.

  Promoted from Sergeant-Major to Quartermaster, 3 June, 1813. Died,
  26 November, 1826.

THOMAS LESLIE.

  Lieutenant, 26 December, 1726.

LEIVINGSTOUN.

  In 1681, Lieutenant in Strahan's Company.

JAMES LEVINGSTON.

  Cornet, 1702. Lieutenant 11 May, 1705, in George Sheen's troop. In
  1715, Captain.

WILLIAM LEVINGSTOUN OF KILSYTH.

  7 November, 1685, appointed "Captain of that troop which was lately
  commanded by Lord Charles Murray when he was Lieutenant-Colonel,
  and now he is Colonel." 23 August, 1688, commission to Livingstoun
  to be Aid-Major.

HARRY P. LEVITA.

  Lieutenant, 23 August, 1884. Levita, H. P. (Captain, Reserve of
  Officers). Soudan Expedition, 1885, and Suakim. Medal with clasp;
  bronze star.

JENKYN LEYSON.

  Lieutenant, 23 July, 1737. Retires and is succeeded by Cornet
  Hamilton Blair, 6 August, 1742.

JENKIN LEYTON (+OR+ LEYSON).

  Lieutenant, 22 May, 1723.

WILLIAM ROBERTSON LIDDERDALE.

  Appointed Cornet 22 February, 1775, and transferred from the
  Colonel's troop to the Lieutenant-Colonel's troop. Resigned 16
  September, 1778.

JOHN LIDDLE.

  Quartermaster, from Quartermaster-Sergeant, 27 September, 1871.

THE HONOURABLE ROBERT HAMILTON LINDSAY.

  Third son of the Earl of Crawford, was born 30 March, 1874, and
  married, 23 April, 1903, May Janet, eldest daughter of the late
  Sir William J. Clark, first Baronet. 2nd Lieutenant, 10 October,
  1894. Lieutenant, 25 September, 1895. Captain, 20 March, 1901.
  Served in South African War in 1899 to 1900, and was present at
  relief of Kimberley; took part in operations in Orange Free State
  from February to May, 1900, including Paardeberg, actions at
  Poplar Grove, Driefontein, Karree Siding, and Zand River; and
  in the Transvaal in May and June, 1900, including actions near
  Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Diamond Hill. Medal with five clasps.

GEORGE HAYWOOD LINDSEY.

        (Later written Hayward.)

  Cornet, by purchase, 3 December, 1818. In 1823 promoted in 57th
  Foot.

JAMES LINDSEY, "EARL OF BALCARAS."

  On 5 June, 1711, was a Lieutenant in the Navy. 26 December, 1726,
  appointed a Lieutenant in this Regiment. 25 April, 1741, made
  Captain.

  Born 14 November, 1691. Joined his father at the rising of 1715,
  and was captain of a troop which acted with great gallantry at the
  battle of Sheriffmuir. He was, however, pardoned and made Lt. 2 R.
  N. B. Ds., under his uncle, Sir Jas. Campbell. Was in command at
  Dettingen in 1743; but retired after Fontenoy, 1745, in which his
  uncle was slain. Devoted rest of life to literature and improving
  his estate. At 60, 24 Oct., 1749, married Anne, dr. of Sir Robt.
  Dalrymple, of Castleton. He died at Balcarres 20 Feb., 1768.

HERBERT C. T. LITTLEDALE.

  Captain, 20 November, 1889. Brevet-Major, 21 May, 1884.

  "Littledale, H. C. T. (Major, 4th Dragoon Guards). Egyptian
  Expedition, 1884. Soudan; Battle of Teb (severely wounded).
  Despatches "London Gazette," 6 May, 1884. Medal with clasp; bronze
  star; brevet of Major."

JOHN LIVINGSTON.

  Promoted from Sergeant in the Colonel's troop to Quartermaster, 3
  May, 1800.

JOHN LIVINGSTOUN.

  30 March, 1685, appointed Lieutenant of Captain John Strachan's
  troop.

SIR THOMAS LIVINGSTON.

  Born in Holland, 1652, was elder of the two sons of Sir Thomas
  Livingstone, who was created a baronet by Charles I., and was
  colonel of a regiment of foot in the Dutch service. His mother
  was the daughter of Colonel Edmond, of Stirling. He succeeded
  his father as second baronet of Newbiggin, and acquired military
  reputation as an officer in the Scots Brigade in the pay of
  Holland. He came to England with William of Orange in 1688 as
  colonel of a regiment of foot, and on 31 Dec., 1688, was appointed
  colonel of the royal regiment of Scots Dragoons, now the Royal
  Scots Greys. Livingston served in Scotland under General Hugh
  Mackay, and when in command at Inverness, by forced marches with
  a body of horse and dragoons, surprised and completely routed
  the Jacobite forces under General Thomas Buchan at Cromdale, on
  1 May, 1690. The engagement put an end to the resistance of the
  clans. Livingston succeeded General Mackay as commander-in-chief in
  Scotland, and was sworn of the Privy Council. On 1 Jan., 1696, he
  became Major-General on the English establishment, and on 4 Dec.,
  1696, was created Viscount of Teviot in the peerage of Scotland, by
  patent to him and his heirs male.

  Livingstone married Macktellina Walrave de Nimmeguen, from whom
  he appears to have separated. She "pursued" him in the Scottish
  courts in November, 1703, for the sum of 500_l._, to pay her debts
  contracted since he left her, and alimony at the rate of 400_l._ a
  year. The lords of session "recommended, under the circumstances
  of the case, to cause pay her bygon debts, and to settle somewhat
  upon the lady yearly with the time coming, and to treat with the
  Viscount to that effect" (see Launder, Sir John, Lord Fountainhall,
  Decisions, ii., 200). As a result probably of this litigation,
  Teviot sold the colonelcy of the Scots Greys on 7 April, 1704,
  to Lord John Hay. In the Great Seal Registers are charters of
  resignation by him of the lands of Lethington, on 23 June, 1702,
  and of the lands of Waughton on 26 July, 1704. Teviot became a
  lieutenant-general on 1 Jan., 1704. He died in London, aged 60,
  on 14 Jan., 1711, when having no heirs male, the viscountcy
  became extinct, and the family baronetcy devolved on his brother,
  Sir Alexander Livingstone, third baronet. Teviot was buried in
  Westminster Abbey, where his brother is said to have erected to
  his memory a sumptuous monument which no longer exists. By his
  will, dated 27 Sept., 1710, he left his house and estate, known as
  Livingston House, Wimbledon, Surrey, with furniture, plate, etc.,
  to Lady Elizabeth Gordon, daughter of Charles Gordon, second earl
  of Aboyne. The lady, at this time a child, died unmarried in 1770.
  The remainder of his property went to his brother, Sir Alexander,
  except a legacy of 1,000_l._ to his cousin-german, John Cornelius
  Edmond, then residing in Holland.

JENKIN HOMFRAY LLEWELLYN.

  Surgeon, 18 January, 1856, exchanging from 2nd class staff.
  Exchanged to 8th Hussars, 31 August, 1858.

MARK LLOYD.

  Cornet by purchase, 20 July, 1815. Lieutenant by purchase, 24 June,
  1819. Captain unattached, 1839.

AUGUSTUS PUREFOY LOCKWOOD.

  Exchanged from 8th Light Dragoons. Surgeon, 31 August, 1858.
  Surgeon-Major, 17 September, 1861. On half-pay, 4 April, 1865.

GENERAL THE MARQUIS OF LOTHIAN.

  From Col. the 11th Light Dragoons, Colonel, 27 January, 1813.
  William John (Kerr), Marquess of Lothian, Earl of Ancram, &c.,
  born 13 March, 1737; entered the army, 1754, becoming finally,
  1796, full General. Made a Knight of the Thistle, 11 October, 1776.
  Representative Peer for Scotland, 1778, 1780, and 1784-1790. He
  married in Ireland, 9 June, 1763, Elizabeth, daughter of Chichester
  Fortescue, of Dromisken, County Louth, and of Elizabeth, daughter
  of Richard Wellesley, first Baron Mornington. He died, 4 January,
  1815.

JAMES LOUTHIAN.

  Cornet, 11 May, 1705. Lieutenant, 31 May, 1715. (Another entry
  gives as Lieutenant, 13 February, 1712.)

LEWIS LOWTHER.

  Lieutenant, 1 April, 1692, to last day of February, 1694.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 1 April, 1694, to 31 March, 1696.

ABRAHAM LUDLOW.

  Cornet, 11 May, 1797. Lieutenant en second in Muster ending 24
  October, 1798.

FREDERICK WILLIAM LUKIN.

  From Lieutenant, 17th Foot. Paymaster, 10 August, 1855. Exchanged
  to 2nd Dragoon Guards in 1856.

FRANCIS LYNDSAY.

  Cornet, 23 May, 1746. Lieutenant, 23 July, 1748.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 11 January, 1755. Captain, 25 December, 1755.
  The Muster Roll, signed at Dunse, November 25, 1760, refers to
  Captain Francis Lindsay's "Light Troop." This numbered then 79
  privates and 102 horses. Captain Francis Lindsay resigned 30 April,
  1762.

HENRY DALTON WITTIT LYON.

  Cornet by purchase, 18 April, 1845. Lieutenant by purchase, 24
  September, 1847. Exchanged to 2nd Life Guards, 26 July, 1853.

JAMES LYON.

  Cornet, 24 December, 1726.

JAMES CHARLES MABERLY.

  Cornet by purchase, 25 September, 1867. Lieutenant by purchase,
  22 June, 1870. Captain, 24 June, 1876. Major, 5 July, 1882.
  Lieutenant-Colonel, 5 July, 1888.

[Illustration: +Lieut.-Colonel J. C. Maberly.+]

THOMAS HAMILTON McBEAN.

  Promoted from Troop Sergeant-Major to Quartermaster, 16 August,
  1850. Died, 13 March, 1864.

PATRICK McCALLAM.

  Adjutant, 10 August, 1774.

JOHN MACHELE.

  Cornet, 5 March, 1796. Retired, 9 July, 1796.

JAMES MACLEOD.

  Cornet by purchase, 20 September, 1833. Lieutenant by purchase, 29
  July, 1836.

DONALD JOHN M. MACLEOD.

  Cornet by purchase, 10 July, 1835. Lieutenant, 29 July, 1836.
  Lieutenant by purchase, 23 February, 1838. Captain by purchase,
  28 December, 1841. Major by purchase, 27 August, 1852. Died, 16
  October, 1854.

JOHN WILLIAM McCLINTOCK-BUNBURY.

  Sub-Lieutenant, 30 December, 1871. Lieutenant, 28 February, 1874.

THOMAS KANE McCLINTOCK-BUNBURY.

  Cornet, from 6th Dragoon Guards, 9 October, 1869. Lieutenant by
  purchase, 31 May, 1871. Retired, 4 February, 1874.

  Now Lord Rathdonnell, having succeeded his uncle as second Baron in
  1879; Honorary Colonel, 6th Battalion Royal Irish Rifles.

HON. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK-BUNBURY.

  Son of the above. Second Lieutenant, 4th January, 1899; died
  of wounds received in action at Dronfield, South Africa, 17th
  February, 1900 (see p. 89).

JOHN McDORVAL.

  Cornet in Muster, 24 June, 1760.

GEORGE MACDOUGALL.

  Cornet, 25 December, 1726. Made Lieutenant, 18 September, 1741.

JAMES McDOUGELL.

  Lieutenant, 1 April, 1692, to 11 September, 1695.

HENRY McMILLAN.

  Promoted on 1 October, 1802, from Sergeant-Major to Adjutant.
  Lieutenant (and still Adjutant), 10 April, 1805. Captain, 18 July,
  1815, in place of Reignolds, 1816, Ex.

WILLIAM McNAUGHTON.

  Promoted from Sergeant to Quartermaster, May, 1805.

DUNCAN McNEILL.

  Cornet by purchase, 20 September, 1853. Lieutenant without
  purchase, 15 December, 1854. Captain by purchase, 17 July, 1857.

FRANCIS BEAUFORT MACONOCHIE.

  Cornet (on augmentation), without purchase, 28 November, 1854.

LACHLAN MACQUARIE.

  Cornet from 42nd Regiment, by purchase, 26 April, 1831. Lieutenant
  by purchase, 6 November, 1835. Captain by purchase, 23 February,
  1838. Retired, 26 February, 1841.

JOHN McVICAR.

  Promoted, 3 May, 1800, from Sergeant in the Lieutenant-Colonel's
  troop, to Quartermaster.

THOMAS McWALTER.

  Quartermaster, 28 December, 1797.

DAVID A. A. MACKAY.

  Cornet, 23 May, 1792. Lieutenant, 23 February, 1793. Promoted 24
  June, 1794, to 26th Light Dragoons. (Captain 26th Light Dragoons,
  25 September, 1795.)

JOHN MACKENZIE.

  Quartermaster in Captain Napier's troop in 1763. Died, 28
  September, 1767.

LEWIS MACKENZIE.

  Captain, 18 May, 1820, from half-pay 92nd Infantry. Retired, 21
  October, 1821.

ROBERT McKENZIE.

  Quartermaster in Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1760.

WILLIAM McKERRALL.

  Surgeon, 26 October, 1756.

VISCOUNT F. C. MAITLAND.

  2nd Lieutenant, 16 November, 1887.

  Frederick Colin Maitland, styled Viscount Maitland. Born 12 April,
  1868. Lieutenant in the Scots Guards, 1889. He married, 16 April,
  1890, Gwendoline Lucy, youngest daughter of the Right Honourable
  Sir Edward Vaughan-Williams, one of the Justices of the Common
  Pleas.

THOMAS MALLARD.

  Lieutenant, 22 March, 1692-3 to 15 March, 1697-8.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 1702. Lieutenant, 25 August, 1704. Brevet, to
  act as Captain in the Army, 25 August, 1704; and to take rank as
  Captain in the Regiment, 10 January, 1706-7.

ROBERT MARKHAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 24 June, 1819. In 1823 promoted in 9th Dragoons.

EUSTACE ADDISON MAUDE.

  Born, 5 January, 1863. 2nd Lieutenant, 24 August, 1887. Lieutenant,
  16 March, 1889. Captain, 16 December, 1895.

  Served in South Africa, 1899-1902; Brevet Major, 1901.

CHARLES JAMES MAXWELL.

  Born, 26 October, 1863. Lieutenant, 16 April, 1884. Captain, 19
  August, 1891.

WILLIAM EUGÈNE MELLES

  Second Lieutenant, 4th December, 1901. Served in South African War,
  and in the Mediterranean. Medal. Resigned 2nd February, 1907.

WILLIAM MERRIE.

  Quartermaster in Captain Clarke's troop, 9 January, 1804; on 25
  August, 1810, "placed on the retired allowance."

WILLIAM CRAWFURD MIDDLETON.

  Born 4 March, 1858. "From Gentleman Cadet Royal Military College."
  Second Lieutenant, 13 May, 1878. Lieutenant, 6 May, 1880. Adjutant,
  18 June, 1881. Captain, 21 June, 1885. Major, 9 January, 1895.
  "Soudan Expedition, 1884-5. Nile medal with clasp: bronze star."

  Served in the South African War, 1899-1901; mentioned in
  despatches, and promoted Brevet Lieut.-Colonel (see p. 126); was
  present at the relief of Kimberley, and took part in the operations
  in the Orange Free State, February to May, 1900, including the
  engagements at Paardeburg and actions at Poplar Grove, Driefontein,
  Karree Siding, and Zand River; the operations in the Transvaal
  in May and June, 1900, including engagements near Johannesburg,
  Pretoria, and Diamond Hill; the operations in the Transvaal east of
  Pretoria, including action at Belfast.

MARK WILLIAM VANE MILBANK.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 December, 1837. Lieutenant by purchase, 2
  April, 1841. Retired, 5 August, 1842.

HUGO W. R. MILLAIS.

  Second Lieutenant, 29 April, 1891.

ALFRED DOUGLAS MILLER.

  Born, 1 March, 1864. Lieutenant, 7 February, 1885. Captain, 28
  June, 1893. Adjutant, 18 January, 1896. Major, 20 February, 1902;
  served in the South African War in 1899-1902 on the Staff, and as
  Adjutant of 2nd Dragoons to 9 May, 1900. He was present at the
  relief of Kimberley, and took part in the operations in the Orange
  Free State from February to May, 1900, including engagements at
  Paardeberg, and actions at Poplar Grove, Driefontein, and Karree
  Siding; in the Transvaal 30 November, 1900, to May, 1901; and in
  Cape Colony May, 1901, to 31 May, 1902 (mentioned in despatches);
  D.S.O. Medal with four clasps; King's medal with two clasps;
  qualified for Staff employment.

  D.A.A.G., N.E. District, 6th February, 1903; Lieut.-Colonel
  commanding the Scots Greys, 1907; Brevet Colonel, 21st January,
  1908.

ROBERT MILLER.

  Cornet from 13th Light Dragoons, 12 March, 1829. Lieutenant by
  purchase, 21 February, 1834. Captain by purchase, 30 December,
  1837. Retired, 28 December, 1838.

WILLIAM MILLER.

  Cornet and Adjutant, 7 July, 1846, from Regimental Sergeant-Major.
  Lieutenant, 20 June, 1850. Captain without purchase, 30 September,
  1854. In 1856 on half-pay.

ANDREW M. MILLS.

  Captain, 1 September, 1795. Aide-de-Camp to Major-General Bruce.
  Retired, 9 May, 1796.

JOHN MILLS.

  Lieutenant, 5 May, 1808. Captain 19 July, 1815. Major in the Army,
  15 August, 1822. Major by purchase, 25 November, 1824. Promoted to
  an unattached Lieutenant-Colonelcy, 10 June, 1826.

NICHOLAS MILLS.

  From Sergeant-Major promoted to Cornet, without purchase, 10 March,
  1854. Lieutenant without purchase, 13 September, 1855. Riding
  Master, 11 September, 1857. Retired on half-pay, 6 November, 1867.

SIR JOHN MITCHELL.

  Made Cornet, 18 November, 1755. Lieutenant in Muster Roll ending 24
  June, 1761. Resigned, 27 October, 1769.

PATRICK MOIR-BYRES.

  Born, 10 October, 1869. Second Lieutenant, 23 October, 1889.
  Lieutenant, 19 August, 1891. Staff service: employed with Lagos
  Constabulary, 25 April, 1894.

MAJOR-GENERAL ARCHIBALD MONEY, C.B. +AND+ K.C.

  Appointed Colonel, 24 May, 1852. Lieutenant-General, 2 June, 1854.
  (Waterloo Medal.) Died 25 August, 1858.

DANIEL MOODIE.

  From Regimental Sergeant-Major to Cornet, without purchase, 30
  September, 1854, being an augmentation. Lieutenant and Adjutant, 7
  February, 1856. Resigned Adjutancy, 1858. Exchanged to 60th Foot,
  31 March, 1863. Instructor of Music, 10 April, 1862, and the first
  to hold this appointment in the Regiment.

HENRY MOORE.

  Cornet 27 November, 1752, from the Seventh Dragoons. Lieutenant, 25
  December, 1755. Also 24 June, 1760.

WILLIAM MORRICE.

  Promoted from Sergeant-Major to Quartermaster, in muster ending 24
  February, 1804.

GEORGE HENRY, EARL OF MOUNTCHARLES.

  Cornet by purchase, 31 December, 1844. Exchanged to 1st Life
  Guards, 28 April, 1848.

  George Henry (Conyngham), Marquess Conyngham, &c., born 3 February,
  1825. Entered the 1st Life Guards, 1848. Lieutenant-Colonel of the
  1st Life Guards, 1861 to 1868. Lieutenant-General in the Army,
  1881. Equerry to the Queen, 1870 to 1873, when he was made an extra
  Equerry. Vice-Admiral of the coast of Ulster. He married 17 June,
  1854, Jane St. Maur Blanche, only daughter and heiress of Charles
  (Stanhope), 4th Earl of Harrington. He died 2 June, 1882.

HENRY MOWITT.

  Captain, 10 May, 1796. Retired 15 March, 1797.

JOHN MULLINS.

  From Staff. Surgeon, 4 April, 1865. Retired on half-pay, 22
  December, 1869.

JOHN GROSET MURCHEID.

  Cornet, 15 December, 1774. Transferred from Captain Ramsay's to
  Captain Telfer's troop, June, 1775. Resigned 21 March, 1776.

[Illustration:

                          Lord Charles Murray
                          1ˢᵗ Earl of Dunmore
                        Born at Knowesley 1661
               2ⁿᵈ Son of John 1ˢᵗ Marquis of Atholl and
            Lady Amelia Stanley, Dau. of VII Earl of Derby
                    And Charlotte de la Tremouille
   Colonel Scots Greys 1679. Master of the Horse to Queen Mary 1685.
        Imprisoned 1692 for attempting Restoration of Stuarts.]

GEORGE MURE.

  Cornet, 18 September, 1721. Lieutenant, 10 May, 1732. Made
  Captain-Lieutenant, 15 November, 1740. Made Captain, 27 May, 1742.

CHARLES MURRAY.

  26 November, 1681, commission to be Lieutenant-Colonel.

  30 March, 1685, James II.'s commission to be Lieutenant-Colonel. 6
  November, 1685, appointed Colonel and Captain of a troop.

MURRAY, LORD CHARLES, FIRST EARL OF DUNMORE.

  Second son of John, second Earl and First Marquis of Atholl, by
  Lady Amelia Sophia Stanley, daughter of the seventh Earl of Derby,
  was born in 1660. On the enrolment in 1681 of General Thomas
  Dalyell's regiment of horse, now the Scots Greys, Lord Charles
  Murray was appointed its first lieutenant-colonel. He was also
  master of horse to Princess Anne. After the death of Dalyell he,
  on 6 Nov., 1685, obtained the colonelcy of the regiment, and was
  also about the same time appointed master of the horse to Mary of
  Modena, queen consort of James II. During 1684 he was engaged in
  the campaign in Flanders, and was present at the siege of Luxemburg.

  On 6 Aug., 1686, he was created by James II. Earl of Dunmore,
  Viscount Fincastle, and Lord Murray of Clair, Moulie, and Tillemot;
  at the Revolution he was deprived of all his offices.

  After the accession of Queen Anne, Dunmore was sworn a privy
  councillor 4 Feb., 1703, and in the parliament of 21 May his patent
  was read and ordered to be recorded, whereupon he took his seat.

  In 1704 Dunmore was appointed one of a committee of parliament
  for examining the public accounts, and in September, 1705, his
  services were rewarded by a gratuity. He gave constant support
  to the Union with England. In 1707 he was appointed governor of
  Blackness Castle. He died in 1710. By his wife Catherine, daughter
  of Richard Watts, of Hereford, Dunmore had six sons and three
  daughters:--James, viscount of Fincastle, who died unmarried in
  1706; John, third earl of Dunmore; William, third earl; Robert,
  brigadier-general; Thomas, lieutenant-general; Charles; Henriet,
  married to Patrick, third Lord Kinnaird; Anne, to John, fourth earl
  of Dundonald; and Catherine, to her cousin John, third Lord Nairn.
  The second son, John, second earl of Dunmore, who had a somewhat
  distinguished career as a soldier, and fought at Blenheim as
  ensign, 13 Aug., 1704, and as lieutenant-general under the Earl of
  Stair at Dettingen, in June, 1743; was on 22 June, 1745, appointed
  governor of Plymouth, and raised to the rank of full general.
  William, the third son, who became third earl of Dunmore on the
  death of his brother in 1752, had been concerned in the rebellion
  of 1745, and sent a prisoner to London, but pleading guilty,
  received a pardon.

THE HONOURABLE CHARLES MURRAY.

  Cornet, 3 October, 1798. Lieutenant, 3 April, 1801.

THE HONOURABLE GEORGE AUGUSTUS FREDERICK JOHN MURRAY.

  Cornet by purchase, 21 November, 1834. Lieutenant by purchase, 30
  December, 1837. Retired 6 November, 1840.

JAMES MURRAY.

  In 1681 Lieutenant under Major Sir James Turner. Appointed 30
  March, 1685. Lieutenant of Major John Wedderburne's troop. 23
  August, 1688, commission to be Captain of the troop lately Captain
  Strachan's.

JAMES MURRAY.

  7 November, 1685, appointed Cornet of John Wedderburne's troop. 23
  August, 1688, commission to be Lieutenant of Lieutenant-Colonel
  George Rattray's own troop.

JOHN MURRAY.

  Cornet 1688.

[Illustration:

                    +H.I.M. the Emperor of Russia+,
                 +COLONEL-IN-CHIEF OF THE SCOTS GREYS+.]

WILLIAM MURRAY.

  Lieutenant, April 1, 1692, to 21 March, 1693. Captain-Lieutenant
  22 March, 1692, to ye last, December, 1693. Captain, 1 January,
  1693-4, to 12 March, 1697-8.

WILLIAM NAPIER.

  Cornet, 2 February, 1746-7. Lieutenant, 21 June, 1749;
  Captain-Lieutenant, 25 December, 1755. Captain, 9 March, 1757. "23
  February, 1760, Captain the Honourable William Napier, with the
  regiment in Germany." Promoted Major and Captain, 14 November,
  1770. From the muster ending 24 December, 1772, David Home appears
  as a Major, and Napier (then Lord Napier) also is entered.
  Resigned, 3 November, 1774.

MICHAEL NELSON.

  Quartermaster from Ensign, 45th Foot, 25 December, 1835. Retired on
  half-pay, 16 August, 1850.

JAMES NESBIT.

  Chirurgeon, 1702, to 31 May, 1715.

HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY NICHOLAS II.

  Emperor of Russia, K.G. Colonel-in-Chief, 8 December, 1894.

CLEMENT OCTAVIUS NICHOLSON.

  Second Lieutenant, 26th March, 1902.

DAVID NICHOLSON.

  Cornet, 1 May, 1794. Lieutenant, 27 May, 1795. Appointed Captain,
  28th (or 20th) Light Dragoons, 5 March, 1796.

SIR JOHN NISBET.

  Appointed Cornet in Major Douglas's troop, 3 March, 1764. Promoted
  Lieutenant in Captain Law's troop, 12 January, 1770. Resigned, 22
  February, 1775.

JOHN NISBET.

  Cornet. Lieutenant, 3 November, 1774, in Captain Ramsay's
  troop. 22 May, 1776, transferred to Captain Heron's troop.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 3 March, 1780.

CHARLES NORMAN.

  Cornet by purchase, 12 February, 1824. Lieutenant by purchase, 12
  December, 1826. Exchanged to half-pay, West Indian Regiment, 10
  July, 1828.

THE HONOURABLE FRANCIS NORTH.

  Fourth Earl of Guilford, born 25 December, 1761. Succeeded to the
  Earldom, 20 April, 1802. Died at Pisa on 11 January, 1817. He
  was a patron of the stage, and author of a dramatic piece, "The
  Kentish Baron," produced with success at the Haymarket in June,
  1791. Cornet in Captain Ramsay's troop, 24 December, 1777. Promoted
  Lieutenant in 2nd Dragoon Guards, May, 1779. Lieutenant-Colonel in
  1794.

ANDREW NUGENT.

  Cornet by purchase, 17 December, 1852. Lieutenant without purchase,
  8 December, 1854. Captain by purchase, 8 February, 1856. Major
  without purchase, 31 March, 1866. Lieutenant-Colonel by purchase, 3
  February, 1869. Colonel in the Army, 3 February, 1867. To half-pay,
  21 June, 1880.

ANDREW NUGENT.

  (Hon. Lieutenant-General, retired list.) Crimean campaign, 1854-5.
  Battles of Balaklava, Inkerman, and Tchernaya, siege and fall of
  Sevastopol. Medal with 3 clasps; Turkish medal.

EDWARD O'BRIEN.

  Cornet, 2 May, 1816.

HORACE STAFFORD O'BRIEN.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 January, 1863. Lieutenant by purchase, 13
  March, 1866. Retired, 9 October, 1869.

SIR JOHN OGILVY.

  Cornet, 17 March, 1743-4. Lieutenant, 10 March, 1751. Resigns 26
  February, 1755.

  "Sir John Ogilvy, of Inverquharity, a zealous Royalist, created a
  Baronet of Nova Scotia, 29 September, 1626; married Anne, daughter
  of Sir Alexander Irvine, of Drum. His great-great-grandson was Sir
  John Ogilvy, 5th Baronet, who married in 1754, Charlotte, eldest
  daughter of Dr. Walter Tullieph of Tullieph Hall, Forfarshire. Sir
  John died on 15 March, 1802."

[Illustration: +General Nugent.+]

WALTER OGILVIE.

  Cornet, 15 December, 1774. Lieutenant, 26 December, 1779. Resigned
  (muster ending 24 June, 1780).

WILLIAM OGILVIE.

  Cornet, 12 September, 1695, to 12 March, 1697-8.

WILLIAM HENRY ORAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 19 January, 1817. Lieutenant by purchase, 4
  April, 1822. Captain by purchase, 10 June, 1826. Exchanged to
  half-pay, unattached, 17 December, 1829.

HUGH OWEN.

  Chaplain. Chaplain in muster ending 24 December, 1785. Retired, 24
  December, 1796.

WILLIAM, EARL OF PANMURE.

  Colonel, 10 November, 1770.

  William Maule, of Kellie. Born in 1700. In June, 1734, succeeded
  his father, an ardent Jacobite. He became M.P. for Forfar, and
  remained so for 47 years. On 6 April, 1743, he was created an Irish
  Peer, as Viscount Maule of Whitechurch, and Earl of Panmure of
  Forth. He died unmarried, at Edinburgh, 4 January, 1782.

RICHARD PARK.

  Quartermaster, 11 May, 1774, in Lieutenant-Colonel Douglas's troop.
  Resigned, 8 March, 1775.

THOMAS PHILIP PARR.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 March, 1855. Lieutenant by purchase, 19
  June, 1852. Captain by purchase, 28 April, 1863. Retired, 19 July,
  1864.

RICHARD PARRY.

  Cornet by purchase, 21 September, 1852. Retired, 6 May, 1853.

WALTER PATERSON.

  Chaplain, 8 July, 1752.

GEORGE PAULET.

  Lieutenant, by exchange, from 8th Dragoons, 22 April, 1859. 30
  January, 1863, went to the 2nd Life Guards. On 6 July, 1867,
  exchanged back to the Greys.

EDWARD PAYNE.

  Cornet, 17 March, 1807. Lieutenant, 13 October, 1808. Captain by
  purchase, 5 April, 1815. Retired, 1815.

JOHN PEASTON.

  Promoted from Sergeant to Quartermaster, May, 1805. Placed on the
  retired allowance, 25 August, 1810.

GAVIN PEDEN.

  Quartermaster, 10 January, 1804.

SIR HENRY CARSTAIRS PELLY, +Baronet+.

  Cornet, from Royal Military College, by purchase, 2 September,
  1862. Lieutenant, by purchase, 26 May, 1865. Exchanged to 2nd Life
  Guards, 6 July, 1867.

  Third Baronet, son of Sir John Henry, second Baronet, high sheriff
  of Cambridge and Hunts, and his first wife--Johanna Jane, daughter
  and co-heir of John Carstairs, Esqre. Sir Henry was born 23 April,
  1844. He was M.P. for Hunts, 1874 to 1877, the date of his death.
  He married 22 November, 1872, the Honourable Lilian Harriet
  Charteris, daughter of Lord Elcho (Earl Wemyss).

ABRAHAM PEMBERTON.

  Quartermaster, 3 May, 1793. Retired, 2 June, 1796.

G. W. PERROT.

  Cornet, 22 December, 1803. Lieutenant, 12 September, 1805. Promoted
  Captain in 60th Regiment, June, 1807.

WILLIAM PERRY.

  From Troop Sergeant-Major to Quartermaster, 7 December, 1826.
  Retired on half-pay, 25 December, 1835.

JOHN GODFREY PETERS.

  From the King's German Legion. Appointed Lieutenant, April, 1805.

ALEXANDER PETTIGREW.

  Quartermaster, 21 June, 1786.

WILLIAM PETTIGREW, +Senr.+

  Quartermaster in Major Napier's troop, in Muster ending 24 June,
  1772. Retired, 20 November, 1792.

WILLIAM PETTIGREW, +Junr.+

  Quartermaster, 29 November, 1792. Deputy Adjutant in Muster Roll,
  ending 24 December, 1795.

FRANCIS MAITLAND PHILIPS.

  Sub-Lieutenant, 24 February, 1872. Lieutenant, 10 March,     .
  Captain, 28 June, 1879.

FREDERICK PHILLIPS.

  Cornet by purchase, 11 May, 1839; also appointed Riding Master.
  Lieutenant by purchase, 29 December, 1843. Captain without
  purchase, 17 February, 1854. Retired, 25 May, 1855.

FRANCIS LAMB PHILP.

  Cornet by purchase, 17 July 1857. Lieutenant by purchase, 24
  December, 1858. Instructor of Musick, 22 July, 1863. Captain by
  purchase, 14 February, 1865. In the 1866-67 Army List a line has
  been ruled through both the office and the holder of it. F. L. P.
  continued to hold his Captaincy. Retired, 24 June, 1876.

GEORGE EDWARD GRAHAM FOSTER PIGOTT.

  Lieutenant, 31 March, 1863, by exchange from 60th Foot. Captain by
  purchase, 16 October, 1866. Retired, 31 May, 1871.

HENRY THOMAS COWARD SMYTH PIGOTT.

  Cornet by purchase, 28 December, 1841. Lieutenant by purchase, 5
  April, 1844. Captain by purchase, 6 November, 1846. Retired, 24
  September, 1847.

CHARLES PILGRIM.

  Cornet, by purchase, 2 April, 1841. Retired, 29 March, 1844.

CHARLTON POLLOCK.

  Cornet, 5 October, 1795. Lieutenant, 28 December, 1797. En second
  in Muster ending 24 March, 1799. Captain in 1805, and perhaps
  earlier. Resigned in December, 1808.

JAMES POOLE.

  Lieutenant, 16 March, 1797. Appointed Captain, 25 May, 1803.
  Lieutenant-Colonel, 4 December, 1815. Retired, 1816.

DAVID SCOTT PORTEOUS.

  Sub-Lieutenant, 28 February, 1874.

SIR DAVID COLYEAR, +Baronet+. Created 13 April, 1703, Earl of Portmore.

  He served in the army of the Prince of Orange; commanded a Scotch
  regiment in the service of Holland; served under William III.
  in Ireland. Colonel and Captain of the Greys, 31 May, 1715. In
  1717, succeeded by James Campbell. He was in 1710 appointed
  Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in Scotland. In 1713, Governor of
  Gibraltar. K.T., 17 January, 1713. He married in 1696, Catherine,
  _suo jure_, Countess of Dorchester.

LENOX PRENDERGAST.

  Cornet by purchase, 11 March, 1853. Lieutenant (not in anyone's
  place, but as an augmentation), 8 December, 1854. Wounded severely
  (see "Gazette," 12 November, 1854). Captain, 13 June, 1856. Placed
  on half-pay, 9 October, 1857. On the same date appointed Captain
  under the augmentation arrangement. Major by purchase, 3 February,
  1869. Retired on half-pay, 30 June, 1869.

WILLIAM TAYLOR PRENTIS.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 August, 1850. Lieutenant by purchase, 11
  November, 1853. Captain by purchase, 25 May, 1855. Retired, 24
  December, 1858.

CHARLES PRESTON.

  Captain, 24 August, 1706.

GEORGE PRESTON.

        (In some cases entered as John.)

  The son of William Preston of Gorton. A Major in the army,
  who died in 1733. Cornet, 16 July, 1739. Made Lieutenant, 23
  April, 1742. Captain, 11 April, 1745. Major, 29 November, 1750.
  Lieutenant-Colonel, 9 March, 1757. Also in 24 June, 1760,
  Muster Roll. Promoted and transferred, 14 November, 1770.
  Lieutenant-General on 18 April, 1782, succeeded William, Earl of
  Panmure, as Colonel. Died, 31 January, 1785.

GEORGE PRESTON.

  Captain, 8 September, 1692, to 31 March, 1694. Major and Captain, 1
  April, 1694, to 15 March, 1697-8. Lieutenant-Colonel, 1702.

GEORGE PRESTON.

  Cornet, 5 May, 1800. Lieutenant, 2 September, 1801. Appointed
  Captain in the 40th Foot, 12 January, 1805.

ROBERT PRESTON.

  Captain-Lieutenant in Muster ending 24 December, 1785. Retired, 6
  February, 1787.

ROBERT PRESTON.

  Lieutenant, 1 April, 1692, to last February, 1693 (of one of
  the two additional troops). Captain, 1 January, 1693-4, to 30
  September, 1694.

PRESTON.

  Lieutenant, 1702.

WILLIAM PRESTON.

  Ensign in the 25th Foot, made a Cornet, 26 February, 1755. Resigns,
  26 July, 1756.

GEORGE BARRINGTON PRICE.

  Captain, 9 October, 1857, appointed from half-pay unattached, to an
  augmentation Captaincy. Retired, 14 June, 1864.

ALEXANDER PRINGLE.

  Cornet, 28 April, 1697, to 15 March, 1697-8.

HENRY P. PULLEINE.

  Cornet, 3 June, 1791. Lieutenant, 22 February, 1793. Captain, 14
  April, 1794. In Muster Roll ending 24 December, 1795, Brigade-Major
  to Major-General Dundas. Major in 21st Light Dragoons, 16 August,
  1799.

JOHN PURVIS.

  Quartermaster, 1796. Appointed Lieutenant in Royal Wagon Corps, 30
  September, 1799.

BALCARRES WARDLAW RAMSAY.

  Cornet by purchase, 15 December, 1840. Lieutenant by purchase, 5
  August, 1842. Transferred to 14th Light Dragoons, 22 March, 1844.

GEORGE RAMSAY--_see_ +George Balfour+.

JAMES RAMSAY.

  Chaplain, 4 May, 1714.

GEORGE RATCLIFFE.

  Cornet, 21 April, 1803. Resigned, 6 June, 1805.

GEORGE RATTRAY.

  22 March, 1687, commission to be Lieutenant-Colonel.

GEORGE RATTRAY.

  23 August, 1688, commission to be Cornet of P. Blair's troop.

ROBERT RAUFIELD.

  Cornet, 1 January, 1693-4, to 14 February, 1695-6.

HENRY RAWLINS.

  Surgeon, 3 May, 1780. Resigned, 25 January, 1785.

GEORGE REID.

  From Sergeant-Major, to have the rank of Cornet, 10 August, 1838;
  also made Adjutant. Promoted to Lieutenant, 21 July, 1842. Captain,
  29 March, 1840.

HENRY REID.

  Surgeon, 16 January, 1816, exchanged from 89th Foot. Retired,
  apparently on half-pay, in 1817.

THOMAS REIGNOLDS.

  Cornet, 23 November, 1797. Lieutenant,         . Appointed Captain,
  11 April, 1805. September, 1805, a Major of Brigade, on the Staff
  of Great Britain. Major in the Army, 4 June, 1814. Killed, 18 June,
  1815.

ALEXANDER L. RENTON.

  2nd Lieutenant, 22 August, 1888. Lieutenant, 4 December, 1889.

MARK RENTON.

  Cornet, 13 May, 1735. Made Captain in "Clayton's," 25 April, 1741.

ARTHUR WILLIAM MORDAUNT RICHARDS.

  2nd Lieutenant, from 7th Dragoon Guards, 23 June, 1880. Lieutenant,
  22 December, 1880. Captain, 5 July, 1886. Acting Paymaster,
  January, 1889.

JAMES RICHMOND.

  Quartermaster, 13 June, 1786. Cornet, 30 April, 1794. Lieutenant,
  8 October, 1794. Adjutant, 19 February, 1796. Captain, 16 August,
  1799. Resigned, 7 March, 1800. On the printed form Muster of the
  Greys, ending 24 April, 1804, Captain James Richmond is noted as "a
  Major of Brigade on the Staff of Great Britain." 5 September, 1805,
  promoted Major. Placed on the Retired List, 25 May, 1811.

ST. VINCENT WILLIAM RICKETTS.

  Cornet by purchase, 13 July, 1826. Lieutenant by purchase, 5 April,
  1831. Adjutant, 18 May, 1832. Captain by purchase, 6 November,
  1835. Major by purchase, 7 April, 1843. Lieutenant-Colonel by
  purchase, 6 November, 1846. Exchanged half-pay, unattached, 27
  August, 1852.

GEORGE JAMES RIDDLE.

  Cornet, 6 October, 1778. In Muster Roll ending 24 June, 1782, noted
  as promoted Lieutenant in 2nd troop of Grenadiers.

JOHN ROACHEARD.

        (Later written Rochied.)

  Cornet, in Muster Roll ending 26 December, 1768. In Muster Roll
  ending 24 December, 1769, spelt John Rocheid. Lieutenant, 3
  November, 1774. Captain-Lieutenant, 5 May, 1775. Promoted Captain,
  25 December, 1779. Resigned, 3 March, 1780.

ANDREW ROBERTSON.

  From 7th Dragoon Guards. Lieutenant without purchase, 22 March,
  1844. Captain by purchase, 7 August, 1846. Exchanged, 24 December,
  1852, to the 87th Foot.

CHARLES GRAY ROBERTSON.

  From the 87th Foot. Sub-Lieutenant, 31 October, 1877.

PATRICK ROBERTSON.

  Cornet, 1691. Adjutant, 27 May, 1692. Lieutenant, 7 June 1693-4,
  to 9 March, 1697-8. Captain-Lieutenant, May, 1705. Captain, 10
  January, 1706-7.

ROBINSON.

  Lieutenant, 1702. Major, 12 June, 1717.

WILLIAM ROBINSON.

  Quartermaster, 8 March, 1775, in Lieutenant-Colonel Douglas's
  troop. Died, 23 February, 1778.

GEORGE CAMPBELL ROSS.

  Cornet by purchase, 19 June, 1857. Lieutenant by purchase, 30 July,
  1858. Exchanged to 8th Dragoons, 22 April, 1859.

HUGH ROSS.

  Cornet, 24 December, 1726. Died, and succeeded by George Preston,
  16 July, 1739.

JAMES ROSS.

  Cornet, March, 1718. Captain, 21 March, 1722.

JAMES CLARKE ROSS.

  1 March, 1864. Paymaster, 14 August, 1877. In the Army Honorary
  Captain, 1 March, 1869.

ANDREW ROSSE OF NEWARK.

  Appointed Quartermaster, 11 May, 1683, and also similar commission
  from King James on 30 March, 1685.

JOHN HENRY RAYMOND ROWE.

  Cornet by purchase, 11 January, 1867. Lieutenant by purchase, 28
  May, 1870.

WILLIAM ROWLEY.

  Cornet, 17 November, 1808. Appointed Lieutenant in the 4th
  Dragoons, 4 October, 1809.

JOHN RUSSELL.

        (On later lists John Ross.)

  Quartermaster, 3 May, 1793.

[Illustration: +Colonel Sanderson.+]

JAMES ST. CLEAR.

  Quartermaster in Captain Patrick Smith's troop, in Muster ending 24
  June, 1784.

HENRY SALWEY.

  Lieutenant-Colonel, 6 November, 1846, from half-pay, unattached.
  Retired apparently same year.

PATRICK SANDERSON.

  Cornet by purchase, 17 November, 1863. Lieutenant by purchase, 16
  April, 1866. Captain by purchase, 31 May, 1871. Major, 1 July,
  1881. Lieutenant-Colonel, 5 July, 1882.

WILLIAM ROBERT WILLS SANDFORD.

  Cornet by purchase, 8 July, 1862. Lieutenant by purchase, 14
  February, 1865. Captain by purchase, 22 June, 1870. Retired, 10
  May, 1871.

ALEXANDER SANDILANDS, +The Honourable+.

  Was second son of the 8th Lord Torphichen. Cornet, 26 October,
  1779, in David Home's troop. Appointed Lieutenant to Ramsay's
  troop, 7 April, 1784. Retired, 6 February, 1787. Died, unmarried,
  20 November, 1806.

ARTHUR W. M., LORD SANDYS.

  From the 7th Dragoon Guards. Colonel, 26 August, 1858. Died, 16
  July, 1860.

  Arthur Moyses William (Hill), Baron Sandys of Ombersley, born, 10
  January, 1793. Entered the Army, 1810, serving in the Peninsular
  War, as also in France and in Flanders, and becoming finally, 1854,
  Lieutenant-General. He was M.P. for County Down, 1817 to 1836. He
  died at Ombersley Court, 16 July, 1860.

GEORGE SANFORD.

  25 April, 1779, as Captain from the 7th Dragoons. Appointed Major
  in the 20th Dragoons, 19 January, 1792.

WALTER SAWYER.

        (In later lists spelt Swayer.)

  Quartermaster, 2 May, 1793. Retired, 24 June, 1796.

JAMES SCHOULS.

  Quartermaster, 4 August, 1778. Died, 31 August, 1783.

HENRY JENNER SCOBELL.

  Born, 2 January, 1859. 2nd Lieutenant from 20th Hussars.
  Lieutenant, 10 November, 1880. Captain, 27 January, 1886.
  Major, 5 July, 1896. Adjutant to Yeomanry Cavalry, 9 October,
  1888-8 October, 1894. Brevet Lieut.-Colonel, 29 November, 1900.
  Lieut.-Colonel, 27 July, 1901. Colonel, 5 September, 1901. Served
  in the South African War, 1899-1902, in command of the first
  Regiment of Brabant's Horse. Mentioned in despatches. Queen's medal
  with 6 clasps, and King's medal with 2 clasps. Brigadier-General
  commanding first Cavalry Brigade, first Army Corps, Aldershot, 1
  April to 30 September, 1903. Major-General, 1 October, 1903. C.B.,
  24 June, 1904. Inspector of Cavalry, 7 May, 1907.

HENRY SALES SCOBELL.

  Cornet by purchase, 7 April, 1843. Lieutenant by purchase, 16 May,
  1845. Captain by purchase, 27 August, 1852. Retired, 11 November,
  1853.

CHARLES SCOTT.

  Cornet in Muster, ending 24 June, 1760. Resigned, 1762.

CAROLUS FREDERICK SCOTT.

  Cornet, 24 December, 1726. Made Captain in "Guize's," and succeeded
  by Alexander Hepburn, 18 September, 1741.

FREDERICK W. A. SCOTT.

  2nd Lieutenant, 2 July, 1892. Lieutenant, 24 January, 1894.

GEORGE THOMAS SCOTT.

  Cornet by purchase, 30 March, 1866. Lieutenant by purchase, 9
  October, 1869. Captain, 30 June, 1875. Retired, 24 February, 1877.

JAMES SCOTT.

  Adjutant, 11 May, 1705. Lieutenant, 24 February, 1707-8.

[Illustration: +Colonel H. J. Scobell.+]

ROBERT SCOTT.

  Adjutant, 1702. do., 31 May, 1715. Captain-Lieutenant, 7 June, 1720.

SAMUEL SEGGIE.

  Cornet, from Sergeant-Major, without purchase, 19 February, 1855.
  Lieutenant, by augmentation, without purchase, 17 November, 1857.
  Exchanged to the 1st Foot, 29 March, 1861.

HENRY SELWYN.

  16 September, 1705, Ensign in the Guards. 10 October, 1710, Captain
  of Foot. 31 May, 1715, Captain in the Greys.

ALEXANDER SETON, VISCOUNT KINGSTOUN.

  Born about 1621, 3rd son of George, 3rd Earl of Winton. On the
  visit of Charles the First to Seton Palace in 1633, he as a boy
  of twelve, welcomed Charles in a formal Latin oration. In 1636 he
  went to study at La Flèche, in France, and afterwards made a tour
  in France, Italy, and Spain. In 1640 he came back to Scotland, but
  to avoid taking the covenant, he went to Holland in 1643. Venturing
  to return, and still declining to subscribe, he was excommunicated
  in Tranent Church, 8 October, 1644. He went to France and was
  for some while in attendance on the young Prince Charles. After
  the Coronation of Charles II. at Scone, he was created Viscount
  Kingston and Lord Craigiehall. He died, 21 October, 1691.

ARCHIBALD GEORGE SEYMOUR.

  Born, 21 September, 1875. 2nd Lieutenant, 25 March, 1896.

WILLIAM R. SHAPTER.

  Surgeon, 9 July, 1788. Appointed Apothecary to the General
  Hospital, 8 April, 1794.

JOHN WINGFIELD SHAWE.

  Cornet by purchase, 10 October, 1816. Lieutenant by purchase, 16
  March, 1820. Exchanged, 27 July, 1820, to half-pay, 18th Light
  Dragoons.

EDWARD R. C. SHELDON.

  Cornet, 14 February, 1805.

SAMUEL SHULDHAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 19 January, 1815. Killed at Waterloo.

JAMES SHUTTLEWORTH.

  Cornet, 1800, in the Lieutenant-Colonel's troop.

CHARLES DE LAET WALDO SIBTHORPE.

  Born, 14 February, 1783. Cornet, 24 September, 1803. Lieutenant, 9
  January, 1806. Afterwards he went to the 4th Dragoon Guards, and
  served through the Peninsular War. In 1822, on the death of his
  eldest brother, he succeeded to the family estates, and in 1826
  was elected M.P. for Lincoln, a borough which four members of his
  family had represented before him. He became Colonel of the South
  Lincoln Militia, and a Deputy-Lieutenant. He died at his London
  house in Eaton Square, 14 December, 1855.

FRANCIS BLAKE SIMPSON.

  Born, 10 April, 1859. Lieutenant, 10 October, 1883. Captain, 19
  August, 1891. Dep. Asst. Com. Gen. Ord. Store Dept., 5 March, 1888,
  to 31 March, 1896. Ord. Off. 4th Cl., 1 April, 1896.

ARCHIBALD J. M. ST. CLAIR, +The Honourable+.

  Master of Sinclair. 2nd Lieutenant, 9 December, 1896.

WILLIAM SINCLAIR.

        (Spelt St. Clair in the next Roll.)

  Cornet in Captain Basil Heron's troop, in Muster ending 24 June,
  1772. Resigned, 15 December, 1774.

CHARLES SKEEN.

  Lieutenant, 10 January, 1706-7. do., 31.5.15. do., 1730.

DAVID SKENE.

  Cornet, 30 January, 1800.

GEORGE SKEEN.

  Lieutenant, 1702. Captain, 16 January, 1706-7.

CHARLES SERGISON SMITH.

  Cornet by purchase, 11 October, 1821.

PATRICK SMITH.

        (Or Peter Smith.)

  Appointed Cornet, 1 May, 1762, in the Colonel's troop. 24 May,
  1763, transferred to Captain Napier's troop. In the Muster ending
  24 June, 1765, this is written as Patrick Smith, and then altered
  to Peter. 16 March, 1770, promoted (as Patrick) Lieutenant.
  Transferred to Captain Heron's troop, 8 June, 1775. Transferred to
  Major Home's troop, December, 1775. Promoted Captain-Lieutenant, 25
  December, 1779. Promoted Captain, 3 March, 1780. Retired, 17 July,
  1787.

PETER SMITH.

  Quartermaster. In Roll of 24 June, 1760.

GEORGE RALPH SMYTH.

  Cornet, 28 February, 1777. Resigned, 6 October, 1778.

ROBERT DUNKIN SMYTH.

  Surgeon, from 87th Foot, 1 October, 1847. Retired, 21 July, 1854.

JOHN SOLSON.

        (Or Sohon).

  Quartermaster, 26 May, 1760.

JAMES RICHARD SOMERVILLE.

  Cornet from 4th Light Dragoons, 25 February, 1825. Promoted
  Lieutenant and Adjutant, 25 November, 1828. Resigned Adjutancy,
  18 May, 1832. Captain, 6 December, 1833, unattached. Retired, 6
  November, 1835.

CECIL SPEID SOOTE.

  Lieutenant, 29 December, 1886.

WILLIAM SPICER.

  Cornet in Muster Roll ending 24 December, 1785. Died, 22 December,
  1788.

ALEXANDER SPITTAL.

  Cornet, 11 January, 1715-16. Lieutenant, 27 March, 1721.

WILLIAM D. SPOONER.

  Captain, 20 April, 1815. On half-pay in 5th Dragoons, 5 December,
  1811. Major by purchase, 16 March, 1820. Retired, 25 November, 1824.

THE EARL OF STAIR.

  Colonel, 24 August, 1706.

  John (Dalrymple), Earl of Stair, &c., born at Edinburgh, 20 July,
  1673. When but nine years old, he accidentally killed his eldest
  brother, for which act, he was pardoned under the Great Seal. He
  was educated at the University of Leyden, served as a volunteer
  at the battle of Steinkirk, 2 August, 1692. In 1702, he served
  under the Duke of Marlborough, to whom he was aide-de-camp; and
  as Lieutenant-Colonel was first in the breach at the taking of
  Peer: he served with the storming party at Venlo. He was Colonel
  of the Cameronians (26th Foot) as well as of the Scots Greys,
  in 1706, and was in command at Ramillies. In 1708 he greatly
  distinguished himself at the battle of Oudenarde, and in 1709 was
  at the siege of Lille and the battle of Malplaquet. In 1709-10,
  he was envoy to Augustus, King of Poland. In 1710, he was at the
  siege of Douay, and of Bouchain in 1711, becoming General in 1712.
  He was a representative Peer for Scotland, 1707-1710, 1715-1734,
  and 1744-1747. K.T., 25 March, 1710. At the accession of George
  I., he was made P.C., a Lord of the Bedchamber, Colonel of the
  Inniskilling Dragoons, and in February, 1719, Ambassador to Paris.
  He was Vice-Admiral of Scotland, 1729-1733. He died at Queensberry
  House, Edinburgh, 9 May, 1747.

[Illustration: The Rᵗ Honᵇˡᵉ John Earl of Stair

     _G Kneller Eques Pinxit_                    R Cooper Edr Fecit]

CHARLES ARTHUR STANILAND.

  Captain, 12 January, 1887.

JOHN STANSFIELD.

  Lieutenant, exchanged from the 1st Foot, 29 March, 1861. Captain by
  purchase, 13 March, 1866. Retired, 24 February, 1872.

LAWRENCE STAPLES.

  Lieutenant in Basil Heron's troop, in Muster ending 24 June, 1779.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 6 July, 1792. Retired, 31 July, 1792.

JOHN STEELE.

  In Muster ending 24 June, 1798, Quartermaster en second.

WALTER SCOTT STEELE.

  Quartermaster, 27 September, 1882.

C. B. STEVENSON.

  Lieutenant, 18 July, 1816. On half-pay, 25 October, 1821.

---- STEWART.

  Captain, 1702.

JAMES STEWART.

  Cornet, 10 July, 1706, in George Skeen's troop.

SIR JAMES STEWART, +Bart.+

  Colonel, 12 January, 1815. General, 25 September, 1803. Died, 5
  August, 1839.

JOHN LORN STEWART.

  Cornet, from 7th Dragoon Guards, on augmentation, 20 February,
  1855. Lieutenant by purchase, 8 February, 1856. Captain by
  purchase, 2 September, 1862. Exchanged to 18th Hussars, 2 March,
  1864.

JOHN STEUART, +called+ JOHN ROY, 1700-1752.

  The "Dictionary of National Biography" is the authority for the
  following:--

  "Belonged to the Steuarts of Kincardine. Was born at Knock in 1700.
  Served for some time as a Lieutenant and Quartermaster in the
  Scots Greys; but being refused a commission in the Black Watch,
  he resigned. Then he was employed as a Jacobite agent, and being
  arrested, he broke out of Inverness Gaol, by the connivance of
  Simon Fraser, Lord Lovat. He fought in the French Army at Fontenoy,
  30 April, 1745. Then he joined Prince Charles at Blair Atholl,
  and was put in command of the Edinburgh regiment, and fought at
  Prestonpans and Culloden. Afterwards a price was placed on his
  head, but in spite of many hairbreadth escapes, he was never
  betrayed. Gaelic songs and laments composed by him, are to this day
  well known in the Highlands."

WILLIAM DRUMMOND STEWART.

  Cornet by purchase, 12 December, 1826. Lieutenant by purchase, 20
  September, 1833. Captain by purchase, 29 July, 1836. Exchanged to
  35th Foot, 24 August, 1839.

JOHN STOBO.

  Quartermaster, 1799. Adjutant, 7 March, 1800. Cornet, 3 May, 1800.
  Lieutenant, 25 June, 1803. In the Muster Roll ending 24 October,
  1803, Lieutenant John Stobo is recruiting at Kilmarnock.

JOHN HERBERT RANDALL STODDART.

  Cornet, without purchase, 16 November, 1855. In 1856 joined the
  12th Light Dragoons.

ANDREW ACRES STONEY.

  Surgeon, from the 94th Foot, 26 June, 1872. In the 1873-4 List,
  printed as Surgeon-Major.

JOHN STRACHAN.

  21 May, 1678, commission to be Captain of one of three independent
  companies raised. 25 November, 1681, commission as Captain, on the
  companies being regimented. Captain, August 22nd, 1683. 30 March,
  1685, James the Second's commission to be Captain of a troop.

J. LOBB STRINGER.

  Cornet, 25 December, 1800. Lieutenant, 17 February, 1803. Promoted
  Captain in the 72nd Foot, in 1806.

FRANCIS STUART OF COLDINGHAM.

  On 23 September, 1678, Viscount Kingstoun was commissioned to
  be Captain of "a new company of Dragoons appointed by Us to be
  forthwith levyed." On the 27th, Francis Stuart of Coldingham was
  appointed his Lieutenant. On July 24th, 1679, he was made Captain,
  on the resignation of Viscount Kingstoun.

FRANCIS STUPART.

  Cornet, 1808. Promoted Lieutenant, 14 December, 1809. Captain, 20
  July, 1815. In 1816 on half-pay.

WILLIAM STURGES.

  Lieutenant, 15 September, 1815. Captain, by purchase, 4 April,
  1822. Retired, 29 July, 1836.

GEORGE AUGUSTUS FILMER SULIVAN.

  Cornet by purchase, 29 July, 1836. Lieutenant by purchase, 26
  February, 1841. Captain by purchase, 5 April, 1844. Major without
  purchase, 17 February, 1854. Lieutenant-Colonel in the Army, 12
  December, 1854. 26 February, 1858, to the 5th Dragoons.

FRANCIS SUTHERLAND.

  Cornet by purchase, 26 September, 1847. Lieutenant by purchase, 11
  April, 1851. Captain, without purchase, 24 November, 1854. Retired,
  8 February, 1856.

CUTHBERT SWADLE.

  Cornet, 23 January, 1777. Sold out, 4 December, 1778.

FOSTER SWETENHAM.

  Born, 21 June, 1876. 2nd Lieutenant, 9 December, 1896.

JOHN DENNIS SWINBURNE.

  Paymaster, 17 April, 1866. Exchanged to 92nd Foot, 14 August, 1867.

JOHN EDWARD SWINDLEY.

  From the 12th Light Dragoons, appointed Captain, without purchase,
  5 March, 1858. Exchanged to 6th Dragoons, 18 January, 1859.

  Swindley, I. E. (Honorary Major-General, retired pay). Kaffir War,
  1852-3. Action of the Berea, medal. Crimean campaign, 1855-6. Siege
  and fall of Sevastopol, battle of the Tchernaya, and operations
  near Eupatoria. Medal with clasp, and Turkish medal. Indian Mutiny,
  1858-9. Actions of Teegunge, Kutrai, and capture of Banda, medal.
  Afghan War, 1879. Served with the Kandahar field force. Mentioned
  in despatches.

CHARLES GEORGE HARRINGTON TAYLOR.

  From the 8th Hussars. 2nd Lieutenant, 19 December, 1877. Resigned,
  17 May, 1879.

JAMES TELFER.

  Promoted Lieutenant, 7 March, 1766. Captain in Muster ending 24
  June, 1772. Promoted Major in 20th Dragoons, 26 April, 1779.

ROBERT TENNENT.

  Sergeant in Major Home's troop, promoted Quartermaster in Muster
  ending 24 December, 1776. Retired, 22 May, 1786.

F. TRACEY THOMAS.

  Cornet, 4 May, 1800. Lieutenant, 6 February, 1805. "A Major of
  Brigade on the Staff of Great Britain."

CARRIER THOMPSON.

  Cornet, 20 December, 1780. Lieutenant, 7 February, 1787.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 28 July, 1790. Captain, 6 July, 1792. Retired,
  13 April, 1794.

JAMES THOMPSON.

  Promoted from Sergeant to Quartermaster, 13 February, 1806. "Placed
  on the retired allowance," 25 August, 1810.

CHARLES FREDERIC ST. CLAIR ANSTRUTHER THOMSON.

  From unattached List. Sub-Lieutenant, 13 June, 1874. Went to 17th
  Lancers.

WILLIAM SEAMAN THOMSON.

  Cornet, from the 79th Foot, 12 June, 1860. Retired, 8 July, 1862.

HENRY THORNTON.

  Cornet, 8 October, 1794. Lieutenant, 23 June, 1795. Promoted
  Captain 40th Regiment, 23 November, 1796.

JOHN TOLSON.

  Appointed Quartermaster on command, 26 March, 1762, and
  transferred, 12 October, 1761. 30 April, 1763, transferred from the
  Light troop to the Colonel's troop. Resigned, 27 February, 1775.

JOHN ARTHUR WELLESLEY O'NEILL TORRENS.

  Lieutenant (from Lieutenancy in Londonderry Militia apparently), 20
  November, 1875. Captain, 15 August, 1883. Major 5 July, 1892.

THOMAS WILLIAM TRAFFORD.

  Cornet by purchase, 21 February, 1834. Lieutenant by purchase, 10
  November, 1837. Captain by purchase, 2 April, 1841. Retired, 22
  July, 1842.

BERNARD TROLLOPE.

  Cornet, 19 March, 1818, exchanged from 58th Foot.

ARCHIBALD TROTTER.

  Cornet, 15 June, 1815. Lieutenant by purchase, 19 June, 1817. In
  1821 promoted to Captain in 19th Light Dragoons.

JOHN TROTTER.

  Appointed Cornet, 12 January, 1770. Lieutenant, 5 May, 1775, and
  transferred to Ramage's troop. Transferred to Heron's troop,
  December, 1775. Resigned, 22 May, 1776.

THOMAS TROTTER.

  Lieutenant, 13 April, 1815.

  Thomas Trotter, killed at Waterloo, a descendant of the Trotters of
  Mortonhall, Midlothian, was the second son of Lieutenant-General
  Trotter, who in 1793 married Margaret Catherine, daughter of
  Richard Fisher, Esq., of Lovetts, Midlothian. The family had been
  devoted adherents of Charles the First, and John, a great uncle of
  Alexander Trotter, was in 1645 fined £500 by the "Scots Estates"
  for assisting the great Marquis of Montrose.

RICHARD TURNBULL.

  Cornet, 22 March, 1692-3, to 11 September, 1695. Lieutenant, 12
  September, 1695, to 12 March, 1697-8.

SIR JAMES TURNER.

  25 November, 1681, commission to be Major.

  Born in 1615. M.A. of Glasgow University, 1631. In 1632 enlisted
  in the service of Gustavus Adolphus under Sir James Lumsden, and
  saw much active service, until on the breaking out of the Civil
  War, he became Major in the Earl of Kirkcudbright's regiment
  of Covenanters; but he never took the Covenant. In 1647 he was
  made Adjutant-General of the Scots Army. In 1651, as Colonel and
  Adjutant-General of Foot, he accompanied Charles the Second to the
  Battle of Worcester. He was taken prisoner and sent up to London;
  but escaped on the way at Oxford. He then walked to London, where
  he lay hid for a time, and afterwards joined Charles at Paris.
  At the Restoration he was knighted. He received a commission as
  Major, 12 February, 1663, and in July was employed as one of
  the Visitors of Glasgow University. On 28 July, 1666, he was
  made Lieutenant-Colonel. He was in charge of the forces in the
  south-west of Scotland, whose object was to crush the opposition
  of the Covenanters to Charles the Second. On 15 November, 1666, at
  Dumfries, he was surprised by the Covenanters and taken prisoner.
  At the engagement on the Pentland Hills, 28 November, his guards
  fled, and he escaped. On 10 March, 1668, he was deprived of his
  command, on charges of acting with too great rigour.

CECIL ALGERNON BROOKE TURNOR.

  Second Lieutenant, from Royal North Lincoln Militia, 5 September,
  1877. Lieutenant, 17 May, 1879. Died of pneumonia, 5 May, 1880.

LOUIS JOHN FRANCIS TWYSDEN.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 May, 1851. Retired, 17 December, 1852.

CHARLES HILL UNIACKE.

  Captain, 17 June, 1859, by exchange from 6th Dragoon Guards. Major
  in the Army, 5 July, 1872. Major, 24 May, 1877. Died, 30 January,
  1878.

CHARLES GORDON URQUHART.

  From the 18th Light Dragoons, appointed Cornet without purchase, 11
  March, 1810. Lieutenant, 11 August, 1814. Retired, 1814.

EDWARD USSHER.

  Born 26 November, 1869. 2nd Lieutenant, 29 March, 1890. Lieutenant,
  21 September, 1892.

  Captain, 1900. Served in South Africa, 1899-1902; wounded 11th
  February, 1902 (see p. 132); D.S.O., 1901.

HENRY VERELEST.

  Lieutenant, 15 April, 1794.

ROBERT VERNON.

  Quartermaster, 3 April, 1784. Cornet, 28 December, 1796.
  Lieutenant, 7 September, 1797. In Roll, December, 1797, to
  February, 1798, described as en second. Captain, 23 November, 1804.
  Major in the Army, 4 June, 1814. Retired, 1817.

[Illustration: +Colonel Wallace.+]

ANDREW WACHOP.

  Lieutenant, 24 February, 1707-8.

HENRY JOHN WALE.

  From 15th Light Dragoons, made Lieutenant (on augmentation),
  without purchase, 15 December, 1854. Retired, 19 June, 1857.

THOMAS WALKER.

  Cornet by purchase, 29 June, 1815. Lieutenant by purchase, 3
  December, 1818. Retired, 14 October, 1819.

WILLIAM WALKER.

  Cornet, 26 December, 1800. Lieutenant, 10 April, 1805. Ex. 1815.

JOHN WALKINGSHAW.

  Cornet, 23 April, 1742.

FRANCIS JAMES AGNEW WALLACE.

  Cornet by purchase, 28 April, 1863. Lieutenant by purchase, 30
  March, 1866. Captain by purchase, 10 May, 1871. Major, 21 June,
  1880. Lieutenant-Colonel, 1 July, 1881.

EMANUEL WALTON.

  Lieutenant, 14 May, 1779. Resigned, 6 April, 1784.

JOHN RICHARD WARD.

  Lieutenant-Colonel, 29 December, 1837, exchanged from half-pay,
  unattached. Retired, 30 December, 1837, apparently.

THOMAS WARD.

  Cornet, 1 April, 1692, to 21 March, 1692-3.

CHARLES FITZGERALD WATKINS.

  Sub-Lieutenant from 6th Dragoon Guards, 16 May, 1872. Lieutenant, 6
  March, 1874.

WILLIAM DONALD PAUL WATSON.

  Born, 19 April, 1872. 2nd Lieutenant, 12 December, 1894.
  Lieutenant, 16 December, 1895.

JAMES WATSON.

  Surgeon, in Muster ending 24 December, 1785. Retired, 1 April, 1787.

WILLIAM WAUCHOPE.

  Made a Cornet, 6 August, 1742. Lieutenant, 2 April, 1746.
  Captain-Lieutenant, 10 May, 1751. Resigns, 13 September, 1754.

ROBERT WAUGH.

  Cornet in the Colonel's troop, 5 May, 1780. Promoted Lieutenant in
  the 20th Dragoons, 1781.

JOHN WEDDERBURNE OF GOSFORD.

  On 30 March, 1685, appointed Major. On 6 November, 1685, appointed
  Lieutenant-Colonel and also Captain of a troop.

WILLIAM WEIR.

  In the Muster Roll ending 24 December, 1809, appears Regimental
  Quartermaster William Weir.

ALFRED CHOLMELEY EARLE WELBY.

  By exchange from the 90th Foot. Captain, 26 August, 1876. Major, 21
  October, 1885. Lieutenant-Colonel, 5 July, 1892.

JAMES WEMYSS.

  Cornet, 30 August, 1810. Lieutenant by purchase, 19 November, 1812.
  In 1814, on half-pay. Captain by purchase, 10 October, 1816. Major
  by purchase, 10 June, 1826. Exchanged to half-pay, unattached, 8
  March, 1827.

[Illustration: +Lieutenant-Colonel Welby.+]

EDWARD WESTBY.

  Cornet by purchase, 12 May, 1814.

JOCELYN TATE WESTBY.

  Cornet by purchase, 22 November, 1850. Retired, 11 March, 1853.

ROBERT WHITE.

  Cornet, 15 December, 1790. Lieutenant, 20 February, 1793. Appointed
  Captain, 27th Light Dragoons, 24 March, 1795.

JOHN WHITEFOORD.

  In 1681, Ensign of Stuart's Company. 30 March, 1685, appointed
  Cornet in Captain Cleland's troop.

THOMAS WICKHAM.

  From half-pay, late 33rd Foot. Major, 30 June, 1869.

HENRY WIGLEY.

  Cornet in Captain George Sanford's troop, 3 December, 1782.
  Lieutenant, 18 July, 1787. "Appointed to an Independent Company," 6
  May, 1791.

GEORGE F. G. WILDES.

  2nd Lieutenant, 2 September, 1891.

WILLIAM WILKINSON.

  Cornet, 27 March, 1721. Lieutenant, 24 December, 1733. Retired, 23
  April, 1742.

CHARLES WILLIAMS.

  From Ensign in the 5th Foot. Cornet, without purchase, 25 March,
  1858. Became Lieutenant in the Military Train.

COVENTRY WILLIAMS.

  Second Lieutenant, 14 January, 1880, in the 3rd (the Prince of
  Wales') Dragoon Guards. Promoted Lieutenant, 1 July, 1881. Promoted
  Captain, 24 November, 1886, and exchanged to the 13th Hussars. 12
  November, 1890, appointed Aide-de-Camp to Sir B. C. Russell. 8
  June, 1896, appointed Adjutant. 25 April, 1897, appointed Major. In
  1901 second in command. Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel, 26 June, 1902.
  Lieutenant-Colonel commanding Royal Scots Greys, 19 August, 1903.

  Lieutenant-Colonel Williams served in the South African War in
  1899-1902, and was present at the relief of Ladysmith, including
  actions at Colenso, the operations of 17 to 24 January, 1900, and
  action at Spion Kop; operations of 5 to 7 February, 1900, and
  action at Pieter's Hill; operations in the Transvaal, 30 November,
  1900, to September, 1901, and October, 1901, to February, 1902;
  afterwards served on staff; in Orange River Colony, February to
  31 May, 1902; on the Zululand Frontier of Natal in September and
  October, 1901; and in Cape Colony (mentioned in despatches, Brevet
  of Lieutenant-Colonel, medal with five clasps, King's medal with
  two clasps); promoted to rank of Substantive Colonel, 27 November,
  1907.

SAMUEL TOOSEY WILLIAMS.

  Captain, 24 September, 1847, exchanging from the 47th Foot. Died
  1854.

---- WILSON.

  Cornet, 1702.

A. W. WILSON.

  Cornet, 1 June, 1796. Lieutenant, 8 July, 1797.

GEORGE WINGFIELD WILSON.

  Cornet in Captain Heron's troop, 4 December, 1778. Resigned, 19
  December, 1780.

[Illustration: +Lieutenant-Colonel Coventry Williams+,

Commanding the Greys, August, 1903-7.]

JOHN WILSON.

  From Troop Sergeant-Major to Cornet, without purchase, 29 May,
  1866. Lieutenant and Adjutant, 19 January, 1870. Captain, 23
  October, 1875. Exchanged to 90th Foot, 26 August, 1876.

GEORGE WIMRAHAM.

  In 1681, Lieutenant of Murray's Company. Made Captain of troop
  formerly commanded by John Inglis, 30 March, 1685. Appointed Major,
  30 July, 1686. Made Lieutenant-Colonel with Lord Charles Murray as
  Colonel.

THOMAS WINRAM.

  21 May, 1678, appointed Lieutenant in Francis Stuart's Independent
  Company. 11 May, 1683, appointed Captain-Lieutenant of Sir Thomas
  Dalzell's own company. 30 March, 1685, a similar commission from
  James the Second.

JOHN WINTERSCALE.

  Surgeon from 71st Foot, 28 June, 1836. Retired, 1 October, 1847.

RICHARD WOLFE.

  From 3rd Dragoon Guards. Second Lieutenant, 16 February, 1878.
  Lieutenant, 28 June, 1879.

ANDREW WOOD.

  Surgeon, 19 February, 1765. Resigned, 3 November, 1769.

JOHN WOOD.

  Quartermaster, 28 September, 1766, in Captain Napier's troop. In
  1768, transferred to Captain Law's troop.

WILLIAM ALLEN WOODDROP.

  Cornet by purchase, 18 September, 1849. Lieutenant by purchase, 13
  September, 1853.

ALEXANDER WADHAM WYNDHAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 16 March, 1820. Lieutenant by purchase, 25
  November, 1824. Captain by purchase, 12 December, 1826. Exchanged
  to half-pay, unattached, 26 July, 1827.

CHARLES WYNDHAM.

  Cornet by purchase, 13 May, 1813. Lieutenant, 4 May, 1815. Captain
  by purchase, 24 June, 1819. Promoted to an unattached majority. On
  8 March, 1827, appointed Major in the Greys; James Wemys, becoming
  in exchange, an unattached half-pay Major. Lieutenant-Colonel by
  purchase, 30 December, 1837. Retired, 2 April, 1841.

GEORGE WYNNE.

  Lieutenant, 10 July, 1828, from half-pay, West Indian Regiment.
  Retired, 21 February, 1834.

THOMAS YOUNG.

  Captain-Lieutenant, 1 April, 1696, to 27 April, 1697. Captain, 28
  April, 1697, to 15 March, 1697-8.


                                ADDENDA

                 TO LIST OF OFFICERS PAST AND PRESENT.

    P. 156. +Robert Henry Adams.+ _Add:_ Major, 29th April, 1900.
        Served in South African War, 1901-2, and took part in
        operations in the Transvaal, February, 1901, to May, 1902;
        the Zululand frontier of Natal, September and October, 1901;
        and in Cape Colony, May, 1902 (medal with five clasps).

    P. 158. +Hon. Walter Philip Alexander.+ _Add:_ Commanded the
        Greys in South Africa, 1899-1900; present in command of
        first cavalry brigade at crossing of Reit and Modder Rivers
        (mentioned in despatches).

    P. 168. +Charles B. Bulkeley-Johnson.+ _Add:_ Served in the
        Soudan Campaign, 1899, and commanded the Egyptian cavalry
        during the operations which resulted in the final defeat and
        death of the Khalifa (4th class Medjidie British medal and
        Khedive's medal with two clasps).

    P. 175. +Thomas Conolly.+ _Add:_ Rejoined from Egyptian army,
        February, 1900; killed in action at Commando Nek, South
        Africa, 11th July, 1900 (_see_ p. 98).

    P. 185. +G. H. Falconar.+ _Add:_ Led a squadron of the Greys
        at Waterloo. He was great-uncle to Col. Coventry Williams,
        lately commanding the regiment (_see_ p. 258).

    P. 186. +Cecil William Montague Feilden.+ _Add:_ Major, 1901.
        Served in South Africa, 1899; wounded 18th February, and died
        of wounds 20th February, 1902 (_see_ p. 132).

    P. 201. +John Collinson Harrison.+ _Add:_ South Africa,
        1899-1901; died 3rd September, at Pretoria, of wound received
        in the action near Belfast on 26th August, 1901 (_see_ pp.
        100-1).

    P. 202. +Francis Henry Toovey Hawley.+ _Add:_ South Africa,
        1899-1900; died at Bloemfontein, 27th April, 1900.

    P. 211. +Montague George Johnston.+ _Add:_ Served with the
        Bechuanaland Expedition, 1884-5, on the Headquarters Staff,
        and raised upwards of 100 men for the 2nd Mounted Rifles
        (Carrington's Horse).

    P. 221. +Thomas Kane McClintock-Bunbury.+ _Add:_ Now Lord
        Rathdonnell, having succeeded his uncle as second Baron in
        1879; Honorary Colonel, 6th Battalion Royal Irish Rifles.

    _Add:_ +Hon. William McClintock-Bunbury+, son of the above.
        Second Lieutenant, 4th January, 1899; died of wounds received
        in action at Dronfield, South Africa, 17th February, 1900
        (_see_ p. 89).

    P. 223. +Eustace Addison Maude.+ _Add:_ Served in South Africa,
        1899-1902; Brevet Major, 1901.

    P. 224. _Add:_ +William Eugène Melles.+ Second Lieutenant, 4th
        December, 1901. Served in South African War, and in the
        Mediterranean. Medal. Resigned 2nd February, 1907.

    P. 224. +William Crawfurd Middleton.+ _Add:_ Served in the
        South African War, 1899-1901; mentioned in despatches, and
        promoted Brevet Lieut.-Colonel (_see_ p. 126); was present
        at the relief of Kimberley, and took part in the operations
        in the Orange Free State, February to May, 1900, including
        the engagements at Paardeburg and actions at Poplar Grove,
        Driefontein, Karree Siding, and Zand River; the operations in
        the Transvaal in May and June, 1900, including engagements
        near Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Diamond Hill; the operations
        in the Transvaal east of Pretoria, including action at
        Belfast.

    P. 224. +Alfred Douglas Miller.+ _Add:_ D.A.A.G., N.E. District,
        6th February, 1903; Lieut.-Colonel commanding the Scots
        Greys, 1907; Brevet Colonel, 21st January, 1908.

    P. 229. _Add:_ +Clement Octavius Nicholson.+ Second Lieutenant,
        26th March, 1902.

    P. 254. +Edward Ussher.+ _Add:_ Captain, 1900. Served in South
        Africa, 1899-1902; wounded 11th February, 1902 (_see_ p.
        132); D.S.O., 1901.




APPENDIX


                        EXTRACTS FROM ORDERS OF

                  THE SCOTS GREYS TROOP ORDERLY BOOK

                          +8th January, 1759+

    [_These books belong to Colonel R. G. Wardlaw Ramsay, of
        Whitehill, near Edinburgh (nephew of Balcarres Ramsay, of The
        Greys), who kindly placed them at the Editor's disposal._]

    +Weaver, 12th Jan: 1759.+ The Major is surprized to find that
        when the men go into Town to get Forrage, they get so Drunk
        that they are oblidged to be assissted in getting home their
        forrage by Troops of other regiments, Particularly Corporal
        Moore who some days ago was at Bork, and not only was Drunk
        but knocked a poor man of his horse and took it away from him
        after tumbling down all his forrage. He hopes the officers
        will take particular care to detect any man that are so: that
        they may be punished for such irregularity.

    +Wiver, 20th Jan: 1759.+ Six Ducats to be stopt from each
        Farrier to provide them forge cart horses; what is more than
        sufficient will be returned.

    +Wever, 22nd Jan: 1759.+ A stiver to be stopt from each man for
        having his hatt cocked, which the Major hopes the men won't
        be against paying as it is for their own advantage.

    +Wever, 25 Jan: 1759.+ The Troops to send the bread waggons for
        their Hatts and Gloves on Mon: next, & no man to presume to
        alter the cock otherwise it will be done over again & he be
        oblidged to pay every time it is not in shape.

    +Jule, 6 Jan: 1759.+ The Col's & Maj: Blairs troops to assemble
        at the Red Cross in order to put the following sentence of
        a Court Martial in execution--etc: etc: way to find Red
        Cross--guards there--& Members of the C.M. A Pieces & 1
        Lieut & 3 cornets. Lieut Blacket of ye same regiment accuses
        John Livingstone of ye same Troop & Regiment of being Drunk,
        neglecting of Duty, & cutting at Boor with his broadsword in
        a cruel manner.

            The Prisoner being asked, etc.

            Corpl. Taite being asked, etc.

        The Court Martial considering the excuse & his former bad
        behaviour find him guilty of a breach of the 3rd Article of
        War and therefore sentence him to receive upon his bare back
        by a cat of nine tails from the Drummers of ye regiment 600
        Lashes where and by what proportion the C.O. shall judge
        most proper. Wm. Bury, Capt Lieut.

                               I approve the above sentence Wm. Hepburn.

    +Munster, copy of a letter, Feb: 12th 1759.+ Sir, The Duke has
        ordered a return to be given in dated the 22nd inst. of each
        regt. of Cav: & Inf: specifieing very particularly whether
        or not the Regiment is in a proper state to take the Field
        on the 25th inst: according to the Dukes first order, & if
        not, mentioning the particulars that are wanting to put the
        regiment in a proper condition.

        The Paymaster to be at Munster on 22nd inst:

                                                            R. M. Kieth.

        The officers commanding troops will order a picket mallett
        to be made immediately & put everything as to horse shoes
        accoutrements etc. in the best order possible to take the
        field.

    +Wever, 20th Feb 1759.+ As there is some reason to believe the
        regt. may march soon the C.O.s of troops will get the old
        Camp necessaries put in as good order as possible, the tents
        slung & forrage cords etc ready to march on the shortest
        notice.

    +Wever, 1st Mrch 1759.+ Maj: Hepburn to be buried tomorrow at
        11.0 o'clock. The officers of the Regt. are desired to
        attend. An officer, Sergt, Corpl. Drummer & 30 Private to
        fire over him. Maj: Hepburn's Troop to come over here on foot
        with side arms, leaving their guard on ye village, and bring
        90 loaded cartridges with them.

    +Wever, 2nd Mrch 1759.+ As soon as the Burial is over a Court
        of Enquiry to sit by Capt. Douglas' orders commanding the
        R.N.B. Dragoons to examine into the effects of the Late Major
        Hepburn, for the above Duty Captn: Bury Lieuts Law Conyngham
        Blacket & Home.

    +Ober Kelmor, 24th Mrch 1759.+ The Hereditary Prince being about
        to leave this place, the regiments are now under the Orders
        of His Serene Highness Prince Isenbourg.

    +Caremback, 25th Mrch 1759.+ The Regiment to march tomorrow at
        6.0 o'clock to their new cantonments.

        The Genl. to beat at 4, Boots & Saddles at 5, and March at 6
        o'clock.

        The Royal Regiment of horse guards Blue to Baumback
        Greys                              to Rengershausen
        Inniskillings                to Oberellenback.

    +Rangershausen, 26th Mrch 1759.+ The regiment to march at 6.0
        o'clock.

                                         { Wallshausen
  Royal Regiment of Horse Guards Blue to {      &
                                         { Gersdorff

  Greys                               to { Hausen in the
                                         { Bailliags of Oberaula

  Inniskillings                       to   Oberaula

    +Herschfold, 28th Mrch 1759+ (Extract).

        Orderly cornet tomorrow Greys
            "          next day Innisks

    +Grebenan, 29th Mrch 1759.+ H.S.H. the Duke is not so
        apprehensive of Disorders being comited by the soldry as by
        the sutlers and their servants, the officers servants and
        women following ye armie but he wd have all belonging to
        diffrent corps informed that any offending will be punished
        with death.

    +Wendecken, Sat: 14 April 1759.+ H.S.H. the Duke desires all the
        officers in the Army will honour the memory of H.S.H. the
        late Duke of Isembourg by wearing black crapes for eight days.

        The regiments to give in immediately exact lists of their
        accidence of yesterday, as well men & horses killed & wounded
        as Cannon carridges ammunition accoutrements etc lost.

        Lost a Prussian sack.

    +Marienbourn, 16 Ap: 1759.+ Only one Petit Suttler to be allowed
        to each troop, who must endeavour to provide the men with
        beer, and if any other women do presume to sell gin, their
        Tent will be pulled down, & never be allowed to pitch another
        in the regiment.

    +Neider-Bessingen, 18.4.59.+ The men are on no account to have
        any dispute with the Hessians, and are to behave cively
        towards them.

    +Berge-Sernode, 19.4.59.+ Captn Hinslies horses and 2 German
        horses--a Bay & a Black horse--are wanting--whoever finds
        them are desired to send them to Capt Haltorn at Hd Qrs

        2 German Bay horses with saddles & bridles are found by the
        Greys--the owner may send for them.

    +Alsfelt+, 20.4.59. Corpl Trotter is reduced to the ranks by
        sentence of C.M. and ordered to receive 200 lashes for being
        Drunk on Duty; the Col: approves of the sentence & orders
        him to serve in the ranks as a Private Dragoon. But as the
        Regiment showed a good countenance before the enemy on the
        19th he remits the punishment of 200 lashes, and also forbids
        the C.M. which he had ordered to try Rankin of the General's,
        Lander of Captn Lindsay's & Brown of Captn Homes' for being
        Mortally Drunk & incapable of Duty, & hopes the regiment will
        keep sober for the future, as whoever is seen incapable of
        Duty by Drunkenness will be tryed by a C.M. and the sentence
        immediately put in execution even tho' on a march.

        A Court Martial to sit this day to try David Willie of
        the Colonel's Troop & George Ferrier of Captn Douglas'
        for neglect of Duty & lossing 2 Bullocks belonging to the
        regiment, & the C.M. is desired to consider how the money is
        to be made up, as the Bullocks was bought by the Colonels
        orders for the food of the regiment.

    +Neiderzwern+, 26.4.59. The young horses to get a mash this night
        to be blooded tomorrow morning & get another mash.

    +Neiderzweren+, 29.4.59. Any of the quartermasters who understand
        riding to attend the young horses, and an officer to
        superintend the whole and see that they are not hurried.

    +Neiderzweren+, 2.5.1759. Each troop to order 6 men for the
        piquet, who are to take care the horses dont get out of the
        stables as complaints have been made that they are wandering
        about the streets in the night time.

    +Beren-Broictz, 21st May 1759.+ Lost. A mouse coulared Grayhound
        belonging to Prince Bevesen. Whoever finds it is desired to
        bring it to the Major of Brigade.

    +Beren-Broick, 22nd May 1759.+ Missing--a parcel belonging to
        Lieut Hartnell of the Inniskillings with 2 pairs of boots.

    +Gronenberg+, 26.v.06. R.O. as there has been a bullock killed
        there this morning, the Colonel desires each troop may send
        for what they want--iff a Boors horse can be got they may
        bring one to carry it.

    +Gronenberg, 29th May, 1759.+ As there great complaints of
        Drunkeness among the men It is believed to be owing in some
        measure to so many of the women being allowed to sell Liquor,
        It is again Repeated that the Commanding Officer of troops
        be answerable that no women be allowed to sell Liquor but
        the one appointed to be the Sutler who is to take care not
        to let the men have any Liquor if they see them in the least
        the worst of it, and if any of the women Persists in selling
        Liquor after those orders they will be Ducked and Drummed out
        of the Regiment.

    +Werle Camp+, 9.vi.1759. It is Lord George Sackvill's orders
        that for the future the officers and men of the Cavalry,
        Carrie their swords upright with the hilt resting on the
        Right Pistol, that the Regiment march to Sub:Divisions & the
        officers strictly keep their Posts. These to be Standing
        Orders for the whole British Cavalry for the future.

    +Werle Camp+, 10.6.1759. All Guards & Sentrys from the Dragoons
        on foot are for the future to have fixed Bayonets.

    +Anruckt Camp+, 13.vi.1759. The Drums of the Dragoons must for
        the future march immediately behind the Officer who heads the
        Division.

    +Brincken Camp+, 15.vi.1759. half past nine--The Cavalry to
        remain sadled till further orders, but not bridled. The
        Infantry accoutred, but to boil their kettles & go on with
        their usual Camps business, provided they remain in Camp. The
        horses that are come from the Grand Guard and those on the
        Picket to be unsadled and their Backs well brush'd for half
        an hour and sadled again.

    +Ritberg Camp+, 23.vi.1759. The 21th at Night a British Grenadier
        found a grey mare with a bridle sadle & blue Cloak, & a
        Gray Valise whoever will apply to the Adjt of the British
        Grenadiers will be informed of them.

    +Hille Camp+, 30.vii.1759. A Detachmt of 300 Dragoons to turn
        out Immediatly under the Command of Lt Col. Harvey British
        proportion 220. Detail for the Detachment Blands & Greys
        Captns Subs Blues--Blands. Howards & Innisks. Each Regt 1
        sergt 1 corpl & 19 men per squadron. For this Detachment
        Captn Bury Sergt Watt, Corpls Brown Taite & 6 men, per troop
        Extr. men Genls & Majors. After Orders all the British Troops
        to hold themselves in Readiness to march, but not to strike
        their tents till further Orders. The Cavalry to saddle,
        the Infantry to Dress immediatly and the whole to wait for
        further orders--H S M Brigade 31 July Tuesday Countersign
        Augsbourg.

    +Hille Camp+, 31.vii.1759. For the day to morrow Lt General
        Erwesadle Cavalry Majr Genl Mostyn Infis Maj Genl Schybee.
        Pickets British Inft Maj Hall, Hanoverian Infy Majr
        Hodenberg, Hessian Infy Lt Col. Knaphausen.

        Cavalry Right wing Majr Kellot. Left wing Lt Col. Uffenbach.

        Majors of Brigade Stubbs & Chebeart. Linslous Battn 1st Battn
        of Behr, Brunswick & the Regt of Prince Charles of Hesse
        marched Last Night under the orders of Lt General Gilso, and
        are encamped at Lubeck. Therefore all the men that were on
        Duty of those Corps & were Relieved yesterday, will march
        to Join their Regiments. A Detachment of 300 Cavalry of the
        Right wing under the Orders of Lt Coll Harvey marched this
        morning to Lubeck. If there are no orders to the contrary the
        Regiments may send to forrage at 9 of the morning as usuall.

        There will be an Auction at oclock at Bruckhausens Regt. to
        morrow--

        The Regimt Behr has lost a Brown horse Detale of the
        Detachment of 300, British proportion 200. Picket Innisks
        Capn Howards & Grays Subs.

                     | Blues Cap 1. Sub Sergt 1  Corpl Drum 1 Private 12
                     | Blands                 1    1                  18
  Estate Grand Guard | Howards                     1                  12
                     | Greys                                          12
                     | Inniskgs      1             1                  12
                     | Mords         1                                12

        Orderly men Blands

        Picket Cornet Campbell Sergt Edgar & 1 man per troop Extr
        Colonel & Captn Lindsay. Grand Guard to morrow 2 men per
        troop. Standard Guard Sergt Dale Corpls Willson Monox & 4 p.
        Troop.

        After orders--H. I. M. orders that at one oclock to morrow
        morning the Army shall be ready to march. The Cavalry to
        sadle, the Artillery horses to be harnessed, & the Infantry
        gaitered, but the tents are not to be struck nor the troops
        put under arms till further orders. Chas Hotham Adjt Genl

    1.viii.1759. Orders, Augt. 1st on the field of Battle.
        Countersign Calais.

        For the Day to morrow Lt General Urff Cavalry--Maj:General
        Elliott: Infy: Maj:General Waldegrave.

        At 9.0 o'clock tomorrow morning the army will Return Thanks
        to the Almighty God for the Victory of this Day.

        The Army to be under Arms in the front of the Camp & to fire
        a feu de joy it will be repeated thrice, the Heavy Artillery
        and that taken from the enemy will be drawn up on the front,
        and the regimental guns will remain in the Lines.

        H.S.H. will order when it shall begin & the Count La Lippe
        will direct everything relative to the Disposition of the
        Artillery.

        Each regiment to make a strict search into the Boor's houses
        and on ye Field of Battle for ye wounded as well of our
        Army as the Enemy's, that they may be dressed and sent to
        Petershagen, where the Hospital will be established.

        H.S.H. has ordered by express the Flying Hospital at
        Drokenberg to be Transported there. A return of the number of
        cartridges wanting to compleat ye Artillery and to compleat
        the Regiments to 36 Rounds per man, and likewise a list of
        the Horses the Artillery has lost, to be given in as soon as
        possible. A Return to be given in as soon as possible of the
        Killed wounded & missing specifieing those that are Mortally
        & slightly wounded--nameing the officers.

        The Detachments at Hille and Getterbach will receive orders
        to return to camp. The Pickets will not ly out till further
        orders, but must remain ready on the first notice, those
        of the British Infantry will consist of a sub and 30 only
        from each Regiment & a Captn of Brigade. As soon as the camp
        is marked the Major General of the Day will post the Grand
        Guard. The Head Quarters is at Sud Hemmerer, British Generals
        at Holthausen. The Cavalry to fire on horseback. Grand Guard
        to turn out when called for Captn Blands--Blues--Blands
        sub--Howards Greys--Sergts--Howards, Greys Innisks
        Corporals. Picket this night Howards Captn Greys, Mordts
        subs etc etc. Grand Guard to morrow morning Mordts Capn
        Subs Blues & Blandys Sergts. Innisks & Mordts--Corpls Mords
        Blandys--Grays--

    Countersign

    +Sud-Hemmerin Camp, 2nd Aug: 1759.+ For the Day tomorrow Lt
        General the Marquis of Granby, Cav: Maj: General Col. Ochom
        etc etc etc. Cavalry Right Wing Lt Col: Perston etc. The
        Detachment of 300 Brunswick & Hessian that were posted
        yesterday at Hartam to return to camp this day, The Pickets
        are not to ly out this night: The 2 Battns of Branks and
        Stoltzemberg that covered the Head Quarters to return to camp
        this afternoon.

        H.S.H. orders his greatest thanks to be given to the whole
        Army for their great bravoury and good behaviour yesterday,
        particularly to the British Infantry and to the 2 Battallions
        of Hanoverian Guards, to all the Cavalry of the left wing,
        and General Wagenheim's Corps particularly to the regiments
        of Holstein and Hessian Cavalry and to the Hannoverian
        Regiment de Corps and Hammersteins; the same to all the
        Brigades of Artillery. H.S.H. declares publickly that next
        to god he attributes the Glory of the Day to the Intrepidity
        & extraordinary good behaviour of these Troops, which he
        assures them he shall retain the strongest sense of as long
        as he lives, and if ever upon any occasion he shall be able
        to serve these brave troops or any one of them in particular
        it will give him the utmost pleasure. H S H orders his
        particular thanks to be likewise given to General Spocken,
        the Duke of Holstein, Lt Genl Imhoff, & Urff.--H.S.H. is
        extreamly obliged to the Count de Bucksberg for all his care
        & trouble in the management of the artillery which was served
        with great effect--Likewise the Commanding Officers of the
        Brigade of Artillery vizt Col Brown, Lt Col. Hulte, Major
        Hesse, and the three English Captains Phillips, Drummond, &
        Foy,--H S H thinks himself infinitely obliged to Majors Genl
        Waldegrave, & Kingsley, for their great courage & the good
        order in which they conducted their Brigades.--H S H further
        orders it to be declared to Lt Genl Marquis of Granby that
        he is persuaded that if he had had the good fortune to have
        had him at the head of the Cavalry of the Right wing, his
        presence would have greatly contributed to make the decision
        of the day more compleat, & more brilliant, in short H.S.H.
        orders that those of his suite whose behaviour he most
        admired be named, as the Duke of Richmond, Col Fitzroy, Capn
        Ligonier, Col Watson, Capn Wilson aid de Camp to Major Genl
        Waldegrave Adjt General Estoff, Ruleau, Dirandol, The Count
        Taube, and Malerly,--H S H having much reason to be satisfied
        with their conduct & H S H desires & orders, the Generals of
        the Army that upon all occasions when orders are brought to
        them by his aid de Camp, that they be obeyed punctually and
        without delay.

    +Francenberg Camp+, 22.viii.1759. Lord George Sackville has
        applied for leave to return to England, His Majesty has been
        pleased to grant his request, directing him to leave the
        Command of the British troops to Lieut. Genl. the Marquis
        of Granby. His Lordship therefore takes this opportunity
        of returning his thanks, to the officers & men for their
        good behaviour since he has had the honour to command them,
        assureing them he shall upon every occasion be happy to do
        justice to their merit.

    +Weller Camp+, 29.viii.1759. Lost from an Officers servant a dark
        gray horse a hunting saddle & goat skin--whoever brings him
        to the Adjutant of the Grays shall be well rewarded.

    +Worcester, 3 August 1777.+

    13 Aug 1777. The Regiment will be mustered tomorrow at Ten
        Oclock on the Market Place. The men to be full accoutred in
        New Cloaths, in Long Gaiters.

        The Cloaks for the Party Horses to be Roll'd white side out--The
        Officers to be in Boots.

    14 Aug 1777. The Regiment to be out at the Drill tomorrow
        Morning at seven oclock in Hats & stockings.

    17 Aug 1777. The Regiment to be out at exercise tomorrow at Ten
        oclock, in short Gaiters and Grenadier Caps & Old Cloaths,
        Parade in the Market place.

    27 Aug 1777. The Regiment to be out at the Drill tomorrow
        morning at seven O'clock--in the usual order--

        The Recruits and Aukward men to be at the Drill this evening
        at five in Hats & half Gaiters.

    31 Aug 1777. Lord Panmure's troop to be at the Sign of the Sow
        and Pigs in the Dolic at 9 o'clock to receive their New
        Cloathing--which the Taylors are immediatly to set about to
        fit Serjeant Angus to superintend the whole.

    +Worcester, 15 March 1778.+ Such Officers & Quarter Masters
        or privates Whose Hair is short to be plated or club'd in
        the Style of the Horse Grenadiers are desired to provide
        themselves with false Hair of the Colour of their own
        Twenty-two inches wherefrom it is tied behind--the Weastcoats
        fronts that was got in place of sleves to be given out to the
        men and immediatly fitted to the Backs of the old Weastcoats.

    +Reading, 10th April 1778.+ Six men per troop of the Augmentation
        are to be mounted and accoutred as Light Dragoons, therefore
        so many Recruits may be taken at five feet six inches, or
        even ½ an Inch Lower--provided they are Young and well made,
        and it being Reported that numbers of People from Paesley,
        are here imploy'd in the Weaving trade perhaps some Recruits
        may be picked up to answer the above purpose.

    +Reading, 13 Apl 1778.+ The Regiment will march in three
        Divisions from their present Quarters in the following order
        to the Coast of Sussex--

        _1st Division_ to march on Thursday Next, Lieut Col. Homes
        troop to Haistens Battle & Winchelay--Capt Telfers troop
        Hythe New Rumley & Rye.

    _2nd Division_ to march on Friday, Lord Panmure's troop to Lewis
        New Haven & Eastborne. Col Douglas's troop to Do.

    _3rd Division_ The third division to march on Saterday, Capt
        Herons troop to Shoreham and Brighthelmston, Capt Ramsays
        Arundel.

    +East Bourne, 24 July 1778.+ Orders from Hastings for the Royal
        North British Dragoons Patroling the Coast from Dover to
        Seaford Inclusive. Every Morning at Day brake a Serjeant
        or Corporal from each station is to go to the Nearest
        High Ground where he has a View of the Sea and if He or
        the Patrole on his tour shall discover the appearance of
        anything extraordinary or an unusual Number of Shipes upon
        the coast--they are immediatly to make a report of it to the
        Officer or Non Commissioned Officer Commanding the Port to
        which he belongs, or where the Patrole is going to, which
        Officer is to see himself and carefully to examine as much
        as he possebly can whatever it may happen to be before He
        forwards his own Report to the nixt post to be sent to the
        Head Quarters at Hastings--and all Reports are to be made
        in Writing in which must be specified all that the Officer
        has seen himself or has been Reported to him by the others.
        When any Discovery is made from which there is reason to
        belive the Enemy is on the Coast A Patrole to be sent both
        ways along the Coast with all Expedition with a Report and
        to be Communicated from Seaford to the Party of the King's
        Light Dragoones at Newhaven to be forwarded to the Officer
        commanding that Regiment.

        A patrole of a Dragoon Mounted to set out every Morning soon
        after Sun Rise from Dover and Seaford to the next Post on the
        Road to Hastings--they are to have a sealed card on which is
        written the time the patrole left each Station. The Patrole
        will on his arrival put up his Horse in the place of the
        Patrole going out--will carry and give his Horse a feed and
        set out to Return his Quarters in two Hours. The patrole to
        have his side armes and Pistols Loaded.

    +Canterbury, 26th January 1779.+ As the Adjutant is raither in
        Confusion, the Clerks of Troops are Directed to Assemble at
        Canterbury to morrow the 28th Instant they are to bring an
        exact state of their troops with them--Both of men and Horse
        and the No of Grays--& Bays--and any other transfers &c.,
        &c., that may have happned.

                       By Order of Colonel Home,
                                      Signed +William Crawford+, Sergt.

    +Canterbury, 17th Jany 1779.+ That an Equality may be observed
        in turning the Regiments Cloathing, two men from Each Troop
        are to be sent to Canterbury to get their Coats turned, and
        so soon as that is done the men will Return to the Troops
        Quarters.

    +Margate, 15th June 1779.+ The troops at Margate will march to
        morrow the first trumpet to sound at 5, and to Horse at seven
        o'clock. The troop at Ramsgate will march so as to meet the
        Margate troop at the Half way House and whichever are first
        there will wait the arrival of the others. The men to march
        out of Quarters in their New Cap, but when they return their
        swords, they are to put their Hats on, and wrap their Caps in
        a Handkerchief to prevent them from being Dusted. The Men to
        wear their old Cloaths untill further Order.

    +Head Quarters Salisbury, 1st September, 1779.+ Lord Amhersts
        Orders. Adjutant Generals Office. 30th August 1779.

        The Length of the Charges of the Cavalry with continued speed
        being such that the Squadrons are subject to be Broken and
        thereby become incapable of attacking the Enemy with the
        advantage they will have when the Horses are in Hand and
        under the Command of their Riders, It is Lord Amhersts orders
        that the continued vehemence of the charge is no Longer to be
        practised & it is inconsistant with the necessary order of
        the Ranks so as to make impression with Effect.

        That advancing in Squadrons to charge shall be practised in
        a trott & that the Squadrons shall not gallop above 50 yards
        the distance they may supposed to be from their Enemy when
        they fall into the Gallop.

    +Head Quarters, Salisbury, 14 Septembr 1779.+ That mistakes
        may no longer happen the following Directions for the mens
        Dressing on Horse Back are to be punctually attended to, &
        the Officers are Desired, to mark and Report any man therein
        offending--

        Squadrons at Halt always to Dress to the Right. When marching
        in Line, with their Regiments, always to the center of that
        Line whether to Front or Rear.

        When the Regiment is drawn up in three Squadrons by itself,
        at the word march--the whole Dress immediatly to the Center
        of the Center squadron--if formed in two or in Squadron. The
        men Dress at all times to the Center when marching. When the
        squadron is marching by half ranks Quarter Ranks or Sub
        divisions the whole Dress to the Right and take the Distance
        of Ranks and files from the Right except after a charge of
        the squadron when it must be made by the Center.

    +Salisbury, 4th October 1779.+ The men to clean their gloves and
        coulor their Uniforms. The new Granadeer Caps to be fitted
        for the men, for which the troops are to parade in their
        lines tomorrow at ten oclock. The Mens Hair perfectly dressed
        with their Caps on, and the officers of troops to attend.

    +Orders Head Quarters Camp, near Salisbury, 22d Novemb 1779.+ The
        Regiment Men and Horses to be very clean and everything well
        put on, so as to suit the Camp to morrow in the Best order,
        New Caps and old cloaths, Officers in Hats, The squadrons to
        march off at 10.

        The Horses on first coming into Quarters to be kept very Cool
        with a small allowance of Litter in the beginning, and to
        have all the air possible, on the march the troops to feed at
        ½ a peck, and in quarters at the full allowance.

    +Marlborough, 15th Feby 1780.+ The officers are to examine the
        mens Cloathing every day of parade whether on foot or Horse
        back, and order all wants to be repaired Directly, and give
        attention to the Method of doing their Hair and every other
        part of the Mens Dress, for a soldier may look Clean though
        his coat be not so good as might be wished.

                                 Signed +William Crawford+, Serg. Major.

    +Marlborough, 2 July 1780.+ Major Herons troops will march to
        morrow as the orders Direct, & to parade at 7 o'clock by
        the Town Hall. The men are to be individually acquainted,
        that the Colonel does not mean to threaten them into Good
        Behaviour, But he will expect to see them entirely sober,
        and he thinks this Caution well timed, When they are leaving
        their Comerades and winter Quarters. Should wee fall in with
        troops on our march the officers of Course will pay them the
        Customary Compliment....

    +Memorandum.+

        In case of meeting with different troops upon the march, the
        Senior Regiment keeps the Road & the Junior troops forme up
        two deep, letting them pass from their Right, Swords Drawn,
        trumpets sound the March, Officers Salute.

    +Blandford, 21th Septr 1781.+ Complaint was made this morning
        that several of the Grays had stript some walnut trees,
        belonging to Farmer Page. The men are to learn that they
        must not Invade other Peoples property which is permitted
        in no Country whatever. Never the less, the Colonel has No
        Objection to their amusing themselves at leisure hours, when
        they have Consent of the Proprietor.

       *       *       *       *       *

    This ensuing volume has written inside the front cover:--

        "Captain Ramsay's Troops Orderly Book/price 2s paid by Capt.
            Ramsay/Blandford, 17th Octr. 1781."

    +Dorchester, 11th April 1782.+ The Regiment begins its march to
        Durham in three Divisions upon Wednesday the 17th Instant.
        The Troops at Dorchester form the first, those at Bridport
        and Axminster the second, and Exeter the Rear Division. In so
        long a march the greatest attention will be required to keep
        the Horses Backs sound, and more especially at the Beginning,
        It is the Rider's Interest to Preserve them all in their
        Power, as on the Least swelling the men are expressly ordered
        to march on foot.

    +Durham, 8th Sept 1782.+ The Horse Mains and Tails are to be
        Clean Washed & their Mains Plaited, which if opened out are
        to be again Plaited up till the Morning of the Revieu. On
        Monday or Teusday Next the men will trim their Horses as
        Short and neat as possable. The New Granadeer Caps must in
        the best Order, when great care is to be taken not to hurt
        the Enameling on the fronts of the caps.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Next volume lettered on first page:--

        "Orderly Book/Captain Ramsays Troop of R.N.B.
            Dragoons/price 2/6 paid by Captain Ramsay/Durham 6 Janry.
            1783."

    +Durham, 17th Feby 1783.+ The Regiment to be mustered tomorrow.
        The troops at Durham to be ready to turn out at ten
        oclock--but to wait the trumpet sounding. The troops at
        Chester le street will be in readiness to be Mustered in the
        afternoon. The men to be in Revew Order, New Cloaths and
        Caps. The Boots Buckled above the Breeches. The officers to
        be in Hats as they will not probabily have occasion to mount
        their Horses.

    The next volume:--

    +Worcester, 27th April 1785.+ The Regiment will be seen tomorrow
        by General Johnston, and at nine o'clock it will Parade at
        the usual place. The whole to be in the best Order, & the
        Officers as uniformly dressed as possible, with black Stock
        and Regimental Boots. Recruites in half Gaiters and foot
        accoutrements.... Bridle Bits exactly fitted to the Horses
        Mouths, and stirrups of a proper Length to the Men, who are
        to take care to sit well Down in their Sadles, and not to
        Roll about when in Motion.

    +Worcester, 10th Oct. 1785.+ The Horses may now have some Blood
        taken from them, whenever the Commanding Officers of Troops
        think fit.

    +Glocester, 13th May 1786.+ The Parade to morrow for divine
        Service is at Eleven oclock. The men to appear in Second
        Cloathing and in New Hats. Every man to be answerable for his
        present Hat--which is not to be given away or Disposed of
        till further order.

        The officers will be Particularly attentive at their Troop
        parades to see that the Men wear their Hats agreeable to
        the following Directions--The first Loop to be Exactly in a
        Line with the Nose--and the Hat worn as low upon the Brow as
        Possible--if those Directions are properly attended to in the
        Begining--it will be the means of the whole appearing in a
        uniform and soldier like manner.

    +Gloucester, 30th May 1786.+ The new Gloves to be Delivered to
        the Troops this day and taken back after the Review. The
        Regiment to appear tomorrow in New Cloathing, Hair Dress'd
        agreeably to the pattern approved, and in Boots well tyed up,
        as also to have the Stockes Drawn close to the Necks and not
        slovenly put on.

        Saddles placed well of the Horses shoulders, nor are the Goat
        skins to be too much forward.

        The Firelocks must be well flinted and made very bright.

        ... The officers are to appear in Black Velvet stocks and
        turn over.

    +Salisbury, 1 June 1787.+ The Horses mains to be plaited this
        evening, the men are to have their hair firmly pasted well
        plaited at the Review and to be tyed with a ribbon the end of
        which is to hang down. But the officers of troops take care
        to Examine them upon the troops parade, to sea that the ends
        are not tow long--about 2 inches being Sufficient, and that
        they are tyed uniformly.

    +Winchester, 25th July 1787.+ In order that the officers
        Commanding at the different Quarters may perfectly understand
        the Parade Motions, here follows a list of them Placed in the
        Order which they ought to follow: viz.

    The Parade being formed with shouldered Arms

          Words of Command

          Trail Arms
          Advance Arms
          Trail Arms
          Order Firelocks
          Advance Arms
          Order Firelocks
          Fix Bayonets
          Ease Arms
          Stand Easy
          Attention
          Return Bayonets
          Trail Arms
          Fix Bayonets
          Shoulder Firelocks

    +Winchester, 27th Octr 1787.+ The Men are to be at more pains
        with their Hair, not in the Article of using more Powder, but
        in Plaiting it neatly.

    +Winchester, 8th Decr, 1787. General Orders.+ It is His Majesty's
        Pleasure that the Dragoons are for the future to wear their
        swords slung over their Coats; and in order to render the
        appearance of the two Belts when worn across the Shoulders,
        more uniform, the Pouch Belt is to be reduced from its
        present breadth of four Inches and a half, to three inches.
        The officers when on duty, and with their sashes on, are
        likewise to have their swords slung over their uniforms: and
        when off duty and without sashes, they are to wear them slung
        over their waistcoats.

    +Reading, 5th April 1788.+ As the Boots get much injury in
        being worn after the Troops are arrived in Quarters, they
        are in future to be Put off immediately, agreeable to long
        established Custom in this Regiment.

    +Reading, 10th April 1788.+ Except it be otherwise Ordered the
        Rules for dressing are as follows.

        1st In Squadron or line marching always to the Center, when
            Halted generally to the Right, by word of Command

        2d In Battalion always to the Centre in movement when Halted
            to the Right.

        3d In all Divisions or subdivisions of the squadron or
            Battalion Dressing is generally to the Right.

        4th In filing or Inclining the Body looks the way to which it
            files or Inclines.

        5th When forming from File the whole Dress to the Right or
            left Hand to which the Divisions or squadrons are to form.

    +Reading, 21st April, 1788.+ Such Men as are in want of proper
        Hair for Plaiting behind, must be derictly provided theirwith
        Serjeant Cowan brought some from Scotland, which he will give
        to the Troops agreeable to their Several Returnes.

    The last volume. Written inside cover:--

        "Orderly Book of Major Ramsay's Troop of the Royal North
            British Dragoons. Price 4s/paid by Major Ramsay.
            Saxmundham 21st Augt. 1788."

    +Ipswich, 13th September 1788.+ The Horses of the Regiment to be
        taken up from Grass on Friday morning next the 19th Instant
        and Marched to their Respective Quarters, with proper number
        of Quartermasters, non commissioned officers and men for
        the Duty. The whole to be under the command of Cornet Laigh
        who will report to the Commanding Officer, of any improper
        behaviour of the Men on this Duty, and to be attentive to
        preventing any accident happening in lifting the Horses from
        Grass.

    +Ipswich, 27th Septr. 1788.+ The Commanding Officer being
        informed by Mr. Lander Collector of Customs at Poole that, he
        paid £16:19:3¾ to Quarter Master William Pettigrew on account
        of a seizure of copper made by the Regiment, it is the
        Major's Orders, that Quarter Master Pettigrew do immediatly
        remit the above sum to the Adjutant, in order for its being
        distributed to the Regiment agreeable to the King's Orders.

                                                     +D. Hamilton+ Adjt.

    Orders.

        Any of the men who are not provided with Buck-skin Breeches,
        are to be furnished with them Previous to the Seizure money
        being Paid.

                                                +D. Hamilton+, Adjutant.

    +Ipswich, 11th December 1788.+ In order that the Leather
        Breeches of the Regiment may be Coloured and appear uniform,
        the officers commanding Troops will see that every man is
        provided with a Ball for that Purpose, according to the
        following Proportions, viz 1 lb of Whiting and 2½ of Ochre
        well mixed together. No man to be allowed to Deviate from the
        above.

    +Stamford, 24th April 1789.+ The Troops to march to the feild at
        9 oclock tomorrow with the same number of Cartridges as on
        Wednesday. The Standard to be out. Men to be in their second
        Granadier Caps, which must be fixed in such manner as to keep
        firm on the Head During Every part of the Exercise and this
        the Officers will exemine into before they leave the Parade.

    +Stamford, 26th April 1789.+ The Colonel will give Half a Guinea
        to any Serjeant, Corporal, or Dragoon; who shall contrive the
        best Method of fixing on the Grenadier Caps, and easiest for
        the Men, so as in all Situations to prevent them falling off.

    +Stamford, 7th May 1789.+ The springs of the Firelocks are to be
        oil'd that they may go of easely and toghater. Each man to be
        furnished with 10 good cartridges & a good flint.

    +Lincoln, 19th October 1789.+ First Market Day the Inhabitants
        are to have Notice by Sownd of Trumpet that the Men pay ready
        Money for every thing they want, and take no trust.

    +Lincoln, 18th Novemb 1789.+ The turnkey of the Castle having
        exacted fees without the knowladge or autority of the chief
        Jaylor, any Confined Men who have Paid such are to have it
        Descounted as in Future the Regiment will have the full
        Benefit of the Prison free of Demand (excepting Straw) which
        article Men who willingly bring themselves to that Despicable
        Situation, may or may not have at their own Opinion.

    +Musselburgh, 25th May 1791.+ The Clarks of each Troop may
        advance Sixpence for one quart of the best strong Beer to
        each man, from which if any the least Irregularity proceed,
        it shall stand for a warning not to do the like in future.


                  NOTES OF INSPECTION RETURNS FROM THE
                             RECORD OFFICE

    +S. M. Milne+, Esq., of Calverley House, Calverley, Leeds, has
        most kindly given me the following interesting notes:

Rough Index and Notes of Inspection Returns to be found at the Public
Record Office, Fetter Lane, London:--

                             +2nd DRAGOONS+

    1750. Canterbury, May 9th. Gen. Sir Philip Honeywood.--"Have
        grenadier caps, and wear them well; drums of wood in good
        order, buff accoutrements coloured white, the sergeants
        sashes striped red, blue and yellow, the standards and belts
        indifferent. Uniform red, faced blue, white buttons, and
        button holes, blue waistcoats, and breeches."

    1750. Maidstone, October 6th. "Two standards good." (Evidently
        new since last inspection.)

    1751. Wells, April 30th. "2 Standards good."

    1755. November 4th. Standards as last mentioned. "Officers'
        uniforms all new, quartermasters, and sergeants' horses, have
        hunters tails, accoutrements coloured white, men have white
        gaiters, sergeants have sashes, Caps all new and remarkably
        fine. The whole regiment has grey horses, uniform red, lined
        blue, blue waistcoats and breeches, white buttons and button
        holes, _grenadier caps_."

    1756. October 14th. The light troop has 65 swivel belts, 65
        cartouche boxes and belts, 63 spades, 32 hand bills, 31
        axes, dress red faced and lined blue, blue waistcoats, and
        breeches, white buttons, and button holes--caps.

    1757. October 14th. Recruit horses cost £21 each, for the Light
        Troop horses £15 19s. each. The sergeants have sashes.

    1758. Bury St. Edmunds. June 30th. "blue shag breeches. Caps, no
        hatts."

    1764. Manchester. November 2nd. "Horses of great size."

    1765. Worcester, November 13th. "Two standards in bad condition
        recd in 1752. Officers have blue cuffs embroidered with
        _gold_, blue waistcoats and breeches. There are two new
        Standards in store."

    1768. Blackheath (no date). Two standards new in 1766.

    1769. Musselburg, May 10th. Gen. Oughton.--"Officers' uniforms
        embroidered with gold."

    1770. Coventry, May 15th. Major-Gen. Murray.--"two standards
        1766. A very fine regt, and perfectly fit for service."

    1771. Newbury, April 15th. Two standards 1766. "The regiment
        is fit for immediate business in all respects has a very
        serviceable and soldier like appearance, at the same time
        the latter might be improved by more air and addition of
        quickness in the movements."

    1772. Salisbury, May 4th. Standards good.

    1773. Blackheath, May 18th. (As above.)

    1774. Colchester, May 2nd. Gen. Preston. (As above.)

    1777. Worcester, May 10th. Major-Gen. Parker.--"The regiment is
        very fit for service, and though the men are not particularly
        upright, makes a handsome appearance, the men are to be
        supplied with _bearskin caps_ at their next clothing, and the
        officers are to be provided likewise with bearskin caps, it
        was said in excuse for the badness of the horses tails, that
        on account of the colour their tails were frequently plucked,
        and the hairs stolen. The officers mess together and seem to
        live in harmony. The trumpeters when the regiment dismounted
        and formed in battalion, played two of them on clarionettes,
        two French horns and two on bassoons, and there is besides a
        music master paid to instruct them, who was present in the
        field."

            +Note.+--I expect the hairs were stolen for fishing
            purposes, silk-worm gut not yet having come into
            use.--_S. M. Milne._

    1779. Salisbury, October 6th. Gen. Johnston.--Officers' uniform
        "royal facings, gold embroidered button holes, although
        the men have white, and caps with black bearskin fronts,
        handsomely embroidered and ornamented."

            +Note.+--These caps had just superseded the tall cloth
            fronted old established Grenadier caps, fronted with blue
            cloth, displaying the "_White Horse_" and the _Star_ of
            the Order of the Thistle.--_S. M. Milne._

    1781. Blandford, October 6th. By Gen. Warde.

    1782. Durham, September 12th. Lord Adam Gordon.--"Has _three_
        standards one good and two bad. I do not recollect, in the
        thirty five years I have known the regiment, ever to have
        seen it finer; if the horse furniture was scarlet, instead of
        blue, it would shew better, in my humble opinion."

    1783. Musselburgh, May 27th. Gen. Mackay.

    1784. Manchester, June 3rd. Gen. Johnstone.--"New standards given
        out in 1783. Royal facings with gold embroidered button
        holes, two epaulettes, as grenadiers have, and black bearskin
        caps."

            +Note.+--At this period _all_ other heavy cavalry
            officers had only one epaulette!--_S. M. Milne._

    1786. Gloucester, May 31st. Gen. Phillipson.

    1788. Ashford Common, May 9th. Gen. Douglas.

    1790. York, May 10th. Gen. Tonyn.--"two standards and belts in
        1783."

    1791. Musselburgh, May 25th. Lord Adam Gordon.

    1792. Manchester, June 7th. Gen. Hyde.

    1801. Dorchester, September 28th. Gen. Garth.--"_Five_ standards
        in good order."

            +Note.+--The regiment had been increased to eight, or
            perhaps ten, troops.--_S. M. Milne._

    1802. Croydon, October 11th. Major-Gen. Cartwright.--Reviewed
        by "His Majesty" on Ashford Common, _September 24th, 1801_.
        "White stable jackets are made with the regiment, and paid
        for by the men, price 11/-. In marching order the men wear
        their fur caps--the horse cloth is placed on the saddle,
        cloak before water deck over the saddle bags, and collar
        chain in the horse shoe case,--in watering order the men
        wear Russia duck trousers, and make use of the bridoon as a
        bridle--reason assigned for placing the 'chain' in the horse
        shoe case is that when worn on the neck it stains the colour
        (grey) of the horse--no overalls are in use in the regiment,
        four standards are in use."

    1803. Croydon, May 25th. Gen. Gwynn.

    1803. Canterbury, December 16th. Gen. Staviley.

    1804. Canterbury, June 11th. Gen. Staviley.--"_Four_ standards in
        use."

    1807. "_Five_ Standards."

    1814. Piershill had "five standards."

[Illustration: +Regimental Standards, the property of Capt. D. W. Milne
Home, of Wedderburn, used by the Regiment during the service of his
ancestor, Gen. David Home, of Wedderburn, who died 1809.+

  No. 1. Original of dark blue silk; Scottish Crown and Thistle
            with Motto surmounting Regimental Motto. Regimental Badge
            of the White Horse and "II.D." ("Second Dragoons") at
            opposite corners.

  No. 2. Original of rose-coloured silk, with Scottish Crown
            over Thistle and Rose, surmounting Motto on Scroll.
            Regimental Badges and "II.D." as above.

  No. 3. Original of dark blue silk, with Imperial Crown over
            Scottish Thistle on rose-coloured ground in garter, with
            Motto "+NEC SUNT TIBI MARTE SECUNDI+." Regimental Badges
            and "II.D."]

    1815. +Note.+--I could not find any Inspection Return, but I
        gather from other returns of this year, in France, that
        no cavalry regiments took their standards to the Waterloo
        campaign at all, nor, for that matter, to _France_
        afterwards!! (_pace_ Lady Butler!)--_S. M. Milne._

Newspaper cutting kindly sent by +Captain Lindsay+--

"+For Those in Peril.+

  "The medal struck by Napoleon to commemorate the invasion of
  England, which has come into the sale-room again, would have
  fetched a far higher price when it was first cast could his
  contemporaries have had guarantee of the falseness of the prophecy
  which it expresses. Those were the days when the Volunteer movement
  was born; those the days when Pitt promised an importunate squad
  that they should not be sent out of the country--except in case of
  actual invasion. At about this time a notable prayer was published.
  It begins by invoking a blessing upon 'a' in this house, and a'
  within two miles ilka side this house, the cow, the kail-yard, and
  the muckle town o' Dumbarton.' The Scots Greys lying in Hamilton
  Barracks are commended to favour. 'They are braw chiels--they are
  not like the English whalps, that dash their foot against a stone,
  and damn the soul of the stone, as if a stone had a soul to be
  saved.'"

The following, all kindly transcribed by Captain Lindsay from the
originals still at Binns, by generous permission of the present owner:--

_Holograph._

  Charles by the Grace of God etc. to the High & Mighty prince etc.

  Most high and most mighty prince our deare Brother Cousin and
  freind. Knowing the esteem your highness has of men of valour
  and being persuaded by the repeated assurances of your good will
  towards us, we have been induced to recommend to your Highness the
  bearer hereof our most faithfull and well beloved subject Thomas
  Dalyell Lieut:Generall of foot who now desires to go to Polland
  in order to dedicate himself to your highnesse's service in your
  armys, and seeing he has behaved himself with all the fidelity
  bravery and conduct in ye post of Lieutenant Generall in our armys
  we doubt not that by his good & faithfull service he shall deserve
  your highness's favour, Wherefor we earnestly intreat your highns
  you would receive him kindly into your service and allow him your
  favour and protection, and whatever advantage he shall receive from
  this our recommendation we shall entirely owe it to your highness
  and shall loose no ocasion or opportunity to aknowlege it and so we
  recomend your highness to ye care of the eternall and almighty God.
  Given at Colloign the seventeenth day of Aprile yeare of God 1656
  and of our reign the seventh year

                             Your highness
                                             Most dear brother & cousin
                                                                 Ch: R.


_Holograph the 2nd._

    Charles by the Grace of God etc. to ye Most illustrious &
        prince etc. Lord John Razivile prince of ye holy Roman Empire
        ... of ye great Dutchy of Lithuania and Great Generall of ye
        Armys of Polland our most dear frend and Cousin.

  Most illustrious and    prince our most dear cousin and freind.
  Seeing our most faithfull and well beloved subject ye noble and
  brave Lietenant Generall Tho: Dalyell resolves to go to Polland in
  order to serve in ye army of ye most high and mighty prince our
  dearest Brother the King of Polland and has behaved himself in ye
  post of Luetenant Genall in our army always undoubted fidelity
  conduct and courage we have thought fitt to recommend him who
  has served us so well to your Excellence that he may have your
  favour and protection and earnest entreat your excellence that
  you would so make use of your power and authority that he may not
  be disappointed in his design but by your interest may get such a
  post in your armys as one of his courage and conduct deserves, in
  doing of which your highness will not only intirely oblige him,
  but likewise do us such a favour as we shall take all occasions to
  acknowledge.--Given at Colloign the 17th day of August.

                           Your excellence's
                                                            Good Cousin
                                                                 Ch: R.

                   (The date of this _must_ be 1665.)

The Translation of General Thomas Dalyell's Russian Commission. Copy of
this translation 1762. Original is lost, but there is an enrolment of
this deed in the Russian Records.

  "By the Grace of God We the Great Sovereign Czar and Great Prince
  Alexis Michaelovitch, self-upholder of All the Russias, the great,
  the little and the white, of Muscovy, Kiovia, and Novo Grodia,
  Czar of Cazan, Czar of Astracan, Czar of Siberia; Lord of Pscovia
  and Great Prince of Litovia, of Smolensk, of Twerr Wolsynia,
  Podolia, Jugovia, Permia, of Wiatca, Bulgaria and of others;
  Lord and Great Prince of Novegorode, of the country of Nizovia,
  Chernigovia, Rezania, Polovia, Rostovia, Jaroslavia, Belozeria,
  Udovia, Obdovia, Condia, Witebia, Mstislavia and Ruler of all the
  Northern Countries; Lord of the Iberian Nation, which is under the
  Castalinian and Georgian Czars; and of the Cabardinian Country
  which is under the Chercassian and the Mountainious Princes; and of
  many other Kingdoms and Nations of the East, West and North, to our
  Forefathers belonging, Lord, possessor and Heir.--

  "Declare by this patent of our Czarian Majesty to the Great
  Sovereign Kings, to the Ministers of State, Dukes, Counts, and to
  all free Gentlemen, whom it may concern

  "That Thomas Daliel Leutenant Generall, formerly came over hither
  in order to serve our Great Czarian Majesty; and whilst he was with
  us in our Dominions, he did serve our Great Sovereign and Czarian
  Majesty: He stood against our Enemies and fought valiantly. The
  Military men that were under his command, he regulated, disciplined
  and led them to the Battle himself: and he did and performed
  everything Faithfully, and becoming a Noble Commander.

  "And for those his faithful services, We the Great Lord and Czarian
  Majesty were pleased to order the said Leutenant General to be a
  General, he being worthy of that honour through his Merit: and he
  accordingly served our Czarian Majesty as General, and he stood
  against our Enemies and fought them courageously. In consequence of
  which, we our Czarian Majesty granted him a stipend according to
  his Dignity for his Table and for his pay. And now he the General
  has petitioned our Czarian Majesty that we would please to give
  him Leave to return in to his own country. Therefore we the Great
  Sovereign and Czarian Majesty were pleased to order that the said
  Noble General, who is worthy of all Honor, Thomas, the son of
  Thomas Dalyel should have leave to go in to his own country. And,
  by this patent of our Czarian Majesty, we do testify of him That
  he is a man of Virtue and Honor, and in the Military operations of
  great experience. And in case he should be willing again to serve
  our Czarian Majesty he is to let us know of it before hand; and he
  shall come in to the Russian Dominions of our Czarian Majesty with
  our safe passports. And in Testimony of his services, We ordered to
  give him this Patent of our Czarian Majesty, under our Great Seal
  of State.

  "Given at our Court in the Mitropolis City of Moscow in the year
  from the Creation of the World 7173 Jany 6th. (+A.D.+ 1665.)

        [_N.B._--The inscription on the seal contains all the titles,
            as in the first paragraph of the Patent.]

  "The foregoing Translation being entirely and truly conformed
  with the original Patent in Russian Dialect and Character, it is
  certified by the underwritten Counsellor of the Embassy and Chargé
  D'Affaires of His Imperial Majesty of all Russia in London

  "the 30th day of March 1762.
        "_Signed_    +Theodore Luders+."

    _N.B._--The record of this in Russian is titled _Recueil des
        Chartes de l'Etat et Traités publiés aux frais du Chancelier
        de l'Empire Comte Roumianzow_. Volume iv., page 143. Moscou,
        1828.

The following is transcribed from the original MS. in the General
Register House, Edinburgh, under date 1685:--

                   The order of the March of the troops
                   att Generall Dalyell his funerall

  The officers are all to have Black scarffs and the troops are
  to march with there armes in the posture appointed
  for these occasiones and the trumpettes drums and
  collors are to be ordered as is useuall in the like caises.

  The march is to begin from the Abbay church in this maner
  Major Wedersburnes troop of dragoons
  Earle of Drumlangrig's troop of horses
  The one halfe of the regiment of ffoot guards
  six peece of Cannon guarded by the
  Company of Matrosses
  the other halfe of the regiment of ffoote guards
  The Magistrates of Edinburgh
  my Lord Chancellor (if his Lordship pleases)
        wt the Nobility and Gentry
  The horse of Wair led by two ffoot men
  a gentleman with the Generalls Baton
  The hearse adorned as shall be thought fitt
  with the corpes
  His Majesties Life guard
  dureing the procession there are guns to be fyred
  from the Castle from tyme to tyme
  att the first convenient place beyond
  the West port the troopes are to sett and
  give thre salvies in order as they march
  the castle in the meantyme fyreing a whole round
  Thereafter the horse and dragoons are to martch forwards to the
  buriall place in the same order they martched through the town
  and after the corps are past
  the ffoot and Cannon are to return

A large thin folio volume lettered outside: "Papers connected with the
Royal Scots Dragoons, 1696 to 1704-6." The first writing in the book
(it is really a guard book for insertions) is--

  The following old papers and letters were given to me by Sir
  William Wallace, Bart., and with his permission I now present them
  to the Royal Scots Greys.--+Geo. Cleghorn+, Weens, Roxburghshire.
  Late a Captain in the regiment. April, 1870.

The two following letters from General Dalyell do not relate to the
Greys, but are charming specimens of written language. It may be well
to remember that the great Duke of Marlborough was almost devoid of
education.

              _General Dalyell to the Earl of Lauderdale._

  +My Lord, ...+

  I moist confes I could not hev thoight this cuntray so il
  prinsiplit as I find tham, and am confedent if foren forsis or
  armis cum this laind vil all go in Rebelion, and it simis this
  laist if it had not bein mistymed had bein muth moir terible, and
  no piple heve with moir egernes soight after marterdom then thir
  Roigis to karay thair desyn on deye; mane of the vimen upbraden
  thair husbends and childen for not deyen on the pleis; and that
  vhith is to me strange to see even thois vho profesis muth for his
  Maieste so mersefule inclynit to thois damnet crue.

                                 My Lord,
                                       I am your Lordships humble servent
                                                        +Dalyell+.
  Kilmanoh, _the 27 decembr 1666_

          _Lieut.-General Dalyell to the Duke of Lauderdale._

                                         _Edeinburgh, 4 June [1680]_

  +May it pleis your Greis+,

  The trust his Maieste hes honorit me with of his forsis in this
  kingdom forsis me to reyou the acompt of the troupe bestaued on
  the Erle of hume, whois karithᵃ is so od that it uil onle rander
  the troup euslis to his Maiesty bot thingis may probable fal out
  to ingadg them against his Maiestes forsis, yai his Liutinant the
  Mr of Rois ken hardle stay on his imploiment nather is his quarter
  cliret nor his troup payit as is doon be the reist of the forsis. I
  kno the foilt is myn that he is not trayit be a court of uar: this
  I shun it for the honor of his famile and leist it migh damp his
  loialte. Remiting it to your greis to taik what couers you pleis to
  precrayne[?] in it

       *       *       *       *       *

  May it pleis your Greis of ever mois humble servant

                                           +T. Dalyell+.


       *       *       *       *       *

In the Record Office under the date 30th October, 1684, is the
following order, which is of particular interest as incidentally
illustrating that the Dragoon was neither Cavalry nor Infantry, but the
chosen hero of modern story--the Mounted Infantryman.

    For the preventing of all disputes that might arise concerning
        the Rank of our Royall Regiment of Dragoons or of any other
        Regiment of Dragoons that shall be employed in our Service;
        Wee have thought fit hereby to declare Our Pleasure--

  That our own Royall Regiment of Dragoons, and all other Regiments
  of Dragoons to be employed in our Service shall have precedency
  both as horse and Foot as well in Guarrison an in the Field as
  in all Counsells of Warr and other Military occasions; and the
  Colonells and Officers of the said Regiments of Dragoons shall
  command as Officers of Horse and Foot according to the nature
  of the place where they shall be (that is to say) that in the
  Field the said Regiments shall take place as Regiments of Horse,
  according to the date of their commissions; and that in Guarison
  they command as Foot Officers, and their Regiments take place
  amongst the Foot according to their respective seniorities from the
  time they were raised.

  An Account of Moneys disburst for the Ld Tiviots Regt of Dragns on
  their March from Scotland to Deptford & Greenwich to embark for
  Flanders in March 1693/4 and on their March from Harwich where they
  landed again from Flanders in Decr 97, to Berwick upon Tweed in
  their way to Scotland.

                                                           £  s d
  Feb 93/4   For 4 wagons for the Regt from Harwich to
               Southwark, being one wagon to two
               troops--300 miles at 8d a mile for
               each waggon comes to                       40: 0:0
  27 Apr 94  For 1 Waggon for 2 Troop from S'wark to
               Gravesend. 20 miles                         0:13:4
             for 1 waggon for a Troop from do. to
               Dartford and Crayford 14                    0: 9:4
             For 1 wagn for 2 Troops from do. to
               Croydon & Bromley 10                        0: 6:8
             For 1 wagn for two troops from do. to
               Putney & Wandsworth 5.                      0: 3:4
  For wagons from the several places above mentioned
    to Deptford & Greenwich for Flanders                   2: 0:0
  For fire and candle on their March from 8 Feb 93-4
    to the last of March following                        15: 6:0
                                                          -------
                                                          58:18:8

                                MUSTER ROLL

       of Major Andrew Agnews--Troop of Dragoons begin: the first of
       December and ending the last of Jany--both inclusive, 1702-3

  Andrew Agnew            _Major & Capt_
  Patt: Robinson          _Lieut_
  William Crawfoord       _Cornet_
  James Douglas           _Qr Mr_

  Thos: Taitt    }        _Sarjants_
  And: Ffordyce  }

  John Vanmorgan   }      _Hoyboyes_
  Henrick Bastine  }

    William Pattan  }     _Drummers_
    David Jolly     }

  Walter Graham           _Corpll_
  William Murray          _Corpll_
  Robert Douglas          _Corpll_

  Tho: Agnew
  James Agnew
  Anthony Alisone
  James Alexander
  Duncan Blair
  Halbert Broun
  John Blackburn
  James Bannerman
  George Cannon
  John Craig
  John Campbell
  Alexander Gordon
  Nathaniell Gordon
  Samuell Gordon
  Walter Graham
  Thomas Graham
  James Gray
  John Halling
  John Hunter
  William Hartley
  Andrew Hartley
  William Johnstoune
  David Kennedy
  David Kiddy
  Alexander Lawsone
  James Murdoch
  Thomas Manwell
  Andrew Mcffadrick
  John McMichan
  James Mcdonald
  Stephen Oliphantt
  John Portteous
  Quintine Robisone
  Thomas Ronnan
  John Simpsone
  John Smith
  James Stewartt
  Robertt Stewartt
  William Shirilaw
  William Simpsone
  George Steill
  John Taylor
  James Tellfoord
  John Weir
  George Wrightt
  George Duncan
  Archibald ffleming
  James fforbes
  James Knox
  John Lawrence
  John Moore
  John Buchanan
  John Thomsone
  William Stewartt

                     _Att Tyell y 1st of Dec 1702_

  Mustered in in Major Andrew Agnews Troop in her Majesties Royall
  Regiment of Scots Dragoons Commanded by the Right Honorable the
  Viscount of Teviott ye Capt, Lieut, Cornett and Qr Mr with their
  led horses two sarjants three Corplls two Hauttboyes two drummers
  with fifty four private dragoons Mounted. These comenceing the
  first of Decr to ye last of Janry both inclusive being sixty two
  daies.

                                                           _G. Marshall_


       *       *       *       *       *

The following, by kind permission of the Editor of the _Globe_, and
the author, Colonel R. M. Holden, F.S.A.Scot., is reprinted from the
_Globe_ of 14th June, 1906:--

                           THE WATERLOO BALL

  The Congress of Vienna was about to break up, not in the best
  possible humour, when the announcement fell like a thunderbolt that
  Napoleon had escaped from Elba, which had been assigned to him on
  his abdication in 1814, that he had landed in France, had entered
  Paris, and had re-ascended the throne. The Allied Sovereigns
  soon silenced their differences in a harmonious resolution to
  combine against the disturber of the peace. Napoleon was declared
  the common enemy of Europe, his sovereignty was ignored, and
  preparations for war at once entered upon. It is estimated that by
  June a million of men were ready to fall upon France.

  The Duke of Wellington established his headquarters at Brussels,
  where he had with him in and about the city over 25,000 men. The
  city was filled with fashionable non-combatants of all nations,
  including numbers of British who had long been cut off from the
  Continent, and had been drawn thither by curiosity, or from having
  relations in the army. The whole place teemed with intrigue, for
  there were still a large number of officials who had served under
  Napoleon, and were ready to return to him. However, everything
  outwardly remained quiet, and there was no sense of immediate
  danger. Parties were common, "and all went merry as a marriage
  bell." Among the social entertainments none was so much talked
  about as the now historic ball which was given by Charlotte,
  Duchess of Richmond, wife of Charles, fourth Duke of Richmond
  and Lennox, K.G., who, with their family, had occupied a villa
  in Brussels since the Duke relinquished the Lord-Lieutenancy of
  Ireland in 1813. The Duchess was a daughter, by his beautiful wife,
  Jean, of the fourth Duke of Gordon, known by the Highlanders as
  the "Cock of the North." The daughter of a soldier, the wife of a
  soldier, and the mother of one, her Grace was in close touch with
  the army. In her youth there were few more attractive girls than
  Lady Charlotte Gordon when she used to appear in the feather bonnet
  and Gordon tartan plaid, in compliment to the 92nd Highlanders and
  Gordon Fencibles, which her father had raised.

  The much-talked-of ball took place on the 15th June, 1815, ninety
  years ago yesterday. At three o'clock in the afternoon of that day
  a messenger arrived with important news for the Duke of Wellington
  that Napoleon at the head of his army had crossed the Sambre that
  morning, and had forced the Prussians to retire through Charleroi
  and Fleurus to a position near Ligny. The Duke immediately sent
  off orders for his troops to hold themselves in readiness to move,
  but not to advance. The latter he delayed until the evening,
  when reports from Mons had satisfied him that the attack was not
  a feint, and that Napoleon really had taken the Charleroi road.
  The critical state of affairs did not prevent the Iron Duke from
  attending the ball. On the contrary, he not only went himself, but
  he encouraged his officers to attend, thinking that their presence
  there would have a reassuring effect on the people of Brussels.
  In the room, the coachmaker's store improvised for the occasion,
  were assembled some two hundred guests, including ladies well
  known in English society, and most of the Duke of Wellington's
  staff--the Prince of Orange, the Duke of Brunswick, Lord Hill, Sir
  Thomas Picton, Sir Henry Clinton, the Earl of Uxbridge, Lord Edward
  Somerset, Sir Hussey Vivian, Sir William Ponsonby, Sir Denis Pack,
  and others. The news had spread that the French army was about
  to cross the frontier, and it caused a very natural sensation,
  but the dancing was not interrupted. Indeed, we are told that it
  was maintained with unusual spirit, as if to make the most of the
  enjoyment which was so soon to be interrupted. An interesting
  incident occurred which does not appear to have been recorded.
  During an interval in the dancing, a party of non-commissioned
  officers of the 92nd Highlanders, headed by their pipers, proudly
  marched into the room, having been specially invited to give an
  exhibition of the reel to her Grace's British and foreign guests;
  never did these Gay Gordons dance with greater grace, or to a more
  appreciative audience.

  The imperturbable Duke of Wellington remained at the ball till past
  midnight, constantly receiving messages and giving orders privately
  to the staff. He then quietly withdrew for the desperate encounter
  which was destined to be the crowning scene in a military career
  of unequalled brilliancy. The other officers gradually left the
  room and joined their regiments, many in their dancing pumps. The
  Duchess of Richmond and her daughters took no further part in the
  ball; her husband and two of her sons had accompanied the troops.
  But the girls generally are said to have shown great heartlessness.
  After saying farewell to their partners, many of them for the last
  time, they continued dancing for some hours. Meanwhile, drums,
  bugles, and pipes sounded the assembly through the silent streets;
  the soldiers came swarming out like bees, and Brussels was soon
  astir at the unwonted bustle. What followed is well known. Two days
  later Napoleon's pride was crushed by the most glorious victory
  ever won by British arms; and, alas, the voice of many a gallant
  soldier who, but a few hours before, had been a welcome guest at
  the historic ball in Brussels, was silent in the grave.

  The identity of the famous ball-room in Brussels has been the
  subject of much controversy. For many years it was assumed that the
  house had been pulled down and the ground built over. The villa
  occupied by the Duke and Duchess of Richmond has disappeared in the
  sense that it has been absorbed in the Hospital of the Augustinian
  Sisters; but it was established by the late Sir William Fraser
  to his own and the general satisfaction of the public, that the
  ball was never held in the villa. It took place in the store-room,
  hired for the occasion, of Mons. Simon, the coachmaker, he who
  built the famous carriage which Napoleon used in the campaign.
  It was separate from the villa, and still stands in the Rue de
  la Blanchisserie, in the lower part of the town, being part of
  the building which had returned a few years back to its original
  purpose of a coachmaker's factory and depôt. The room is a long
  barn-like one, with smooth, old-fashioned pillars, and a polished
  floor, and has been likened to the Lower School at Eton under Long
  Chamber--the same square, solid pillars, a low ceiling, and brick,
  whitewashed walls.

   From the "Military and Biographical Notices of the Fallen Heroes"
                              (pamphlet):

                           ROYAL SCOTS GREYS

                "_Honour to the Memory of the Brave._"

The following is a list of the officers and men killed in action on
the 18th June, 1815, belonging to the 2nd N. B. Dragoons (Scots Greys)
given by Sir James Steuart, their Colonel:--

  OFFICERS

  Lieut.-Col. Hamilton
  Capt. C. L. Barnard
  Lieut. T. Trotter
  Captain T. Reynolds
  Lieut. J. Carruthers
  Cornet T. C. Kinchant
  Cornet Edward Westby
  Cornet L. Shuldham

                       NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS

        Name and Rank.            Place of Birth.

  Troop Sergt.-Major John Weir    Mauchline
  Sergt. George Rennie            Glasgow
  Sergt. Arthur Pollock           Blantyre
  Sergt. James Shudrack           Rigegate

                               PRIVATES

        Name.                     Place of Birth.

  Alacorn, William                Stichill
  Arthur, John                    Cumbernauld
  Baisby, William                 Horton
  Black, Alexander                Dunfermline
  Brooks, John                    Heaton Norris
  Brown, Samuel                   Nuttsford
  Brown, Thomas                   Alnwick
  Brice, William                  Bo'ness
  Butler, George                  Cailton
  Christie, William               Auchterarden
  Coupland, John                  Kirkmahoc
  Craig, John                     Barony
  Craig, Robert                   Rutherglen
  Craig, William                  Paisley
  Creighton, David                Dalmellington
  Dawson, Thomas                  Ambleside
  Dawson, Joshua                  Ottley
  Dodds, John                     Berwick-upon-Tweed
  Donaldson, Robert               Barony
  Dougal, John                    Barony
  George Ellingworth              Brotherton
  Fergusson, James                Barony
  Forbes, Duncan                  Irvine
  Frost, John                     Tutbury
  Gray, Alexander                 Paisley
  Hall, John                      Cambleton
  Harness, John                   Glaistow
  Jameson, John                   Barony
  Johnson, Garirn                 Old Monkland
  Kerr, Alexander                 Ayr
  Kidd, John                      Kinross
  Knight, Andrew                  Inveresk
  Leach, William                  Norwich
  Liddle, James                   Airdrie
  Love, James                     Dalsey
  Lyle, Robert                    Kilbarchan
  Mackie, Robert                  Blantyre
  Mackie, Alexander               Glasgow
  Main, John                      Worcester
  McAlla, George                  Carnwarth
  McArthur, John                  Barony
  Mather, Gavin                   Hamilton
  Macauly, Hugh                   Paisley
  MacCulloch, John                Kilmarnock
  McFarlan, Andrew                Glasgow
  Miller, William                 Egham
  Miller, John                    Old Monkland
  Mitchell, William               Kilmarnock
  McKechney, Daniel               Greenock
  McLauchlan, John                Dumfries
  McLauchlan, James               Sanquhar
  McPherson, Angus                Mordant
  Muirhead, Robert                Glasgow
  Murdock, William                Auchinleck
  Murray, Peter                   Tippermuir
  Picter, David                   Stewarton
  Priestley, Luke                 Portsham
  Rayburn, John                   Paisley
  Robertson, Thomas               Neelston
  Robertson, John                 Paisley
  Rolland, David                  Strathblane
  Rose, James                     Glasgow
  Sawyer, John                    Rutherglen
  Scott, John                     Muiravonside
  Senior, John                    Earley
  Simmons, John                   Burnbury
  Smith, James                    Kilmarnock
  Stoddard, David                 Newbattle
  Storie, William                 Renfrew
  Sutherland, William             Cambuslang
  Taylor, Robert                  Barony
  Taylor, Thomas                  Fording
  Truwant, John                   Dewny
  Turnor, George                  Yetholm
  Turnor, John                    Orwich
  Urie, John                      Gortals
  Walker, Alexander               Tengle
  Wotherspoon, Peter              Abernethny
  Whitton, John                   Peckington
  Wylie, Andrew                   Steuarton
  Young, Robert                   Paisley

   8 Officers killed              8 Officers wounded
   4 Sergeants killed
  84 Privates killed             89 Privates wounded

Memorandum relative to the Cavalry at Waterloo from a pamphlet printed
at the time:--

  --------------------------+--------------+--------------+---------------
                            |  +Officers+  |+Rank and File+|
    +Corps, Etc.+           +--------------+--------------+-----+---------
                            |Killed        |Killed        |     |
                            |   Wounded    |   Wounded    |     |Effective
                            |       Missing|       Missing|Total| Force
  --------------------------+----+----+----+----+----+----+-----+---------
  General Staff             | 12 | 46 |  3 | -- | -- | -- |  61 |   --
  1st Life Guards           |  2 |  4 | -- | 24 | 49 |  4 |  83 |  227
  2nd Life Guards           |  1 | -- |  1 | 16 | 40 | 97 | 155 |  232
  Royal Horse Guards        |  1 |  4 |  1 | 19 | 61 | 20 | 106 |  239
  1st Dragoon Guards        |  7 |  4 | -- |120 |115 | -- | 246 |  529
  1st or Royal Dragoons     |  4 |  9 |  1 | 86 | 88 |  9 | 197 |  395
  2nd or Royal N.B. Dragoons|  6 |  8 | -- | 96 | 89 | -- | 199 |  391
  6th Dragoons              |  1 |  5 |  1 | 72 |111 | 27 | 217 |  397
  7th Hussars               | -- |  7 |  3 | 62 |109 | 15 | 196 |  386
  10th Hussars              |  2 |  6 | -- | 20 | 40 | 26 |  94 |  390
  11th Light Dragoons       |  2 |  5 | -- | 10 | 34 | 25 |  76 |  398
  12th Light Dragoons       |  2 |  3 | -- | 45 | 61 | -- | 111 |  402
  13th Light Dragoons       |  1 |  9 | -- | 11 | 69 | 19 | 109 |  390
  15th Hussars              |  2 |  3 | -- | 21 | 48 |  5 |  79 |  389
  16th Light Dragoons       |  2 |  4 | -- |  8 | 18 | -- |  32 |  387
  18th Hussars              | -- |  2 | -- | 13 | 72 | 17 | 104 |  396
  23rd Light Dragoons       | -- |  5 |  1 | 14 | 26 | 33 |  79 |  397
  1st Light Dragoons K.G.L. |  3 | 11 | -- | 30 | 99 | 10 | 153 |  498
  2nd Light Dragoons K.G.L. |  2 |  4 | -- | 19 | 54 |  3 |  82 |  518
  1st Hussars K.G.L.        | -- |  1 | -- |  1 |  5 |  3 |  10 |  618
  2nd Hussars K.G.L.        | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- |  -- |  487
  3rd Hussars K.G.L.        |  4 |  8 | -- | 40 | 78 | -- | 130 |  640
  --------------------------+----+----+----+----+----+----+-----+---------

The Editor is indebted to Colonel Williams, commanding the Greys, for
the following:--

Major Ker Fox, late 19th Hussars, to Colonel Williams, 14th December,
1905.

  +Dear Sir+,--In looking through some family papers the other day
  I came across the enclosed letter written to an ancestor of mine,
  nearly 150 years ago, by a trooper in the North British Dragoons....

  "Revd. Sir--Experiencing your wellwishes for me when presant &
  Expecting A Continuance of the same emboldens me to send you word
  of my welfare being assured that it will be acceptable. I have long
  since Designed to do what I am now about, That I might be answered
  By the good account that you and all my acquaintances are well. I
  have the greatest reason to bless God that I am still Alive For
  truely Sir since we have been Abroad many have fallen By Death
  some by the fatigues of War & number in ye Field, yet to me has
  the Lord been Sufficient having as yet saved my health & covered
  me from all the Dangers Ive been exposed to. I might here tell you
  of our transactions During this Campaign but being persuaded you
  are no stranger to them I will only say that our Fatigue has been
  great, For ever since the 20th of last March that our Regiment left
  winter quarters we have moved up & down. First from Paderborn to
  Bergen where we fought the French & the Battle being as it were
  Drawn on both sides we could not live there being then no forage
  on the ground & what was in the houses the French had it forraged
  into their Maggazins so that for want of forrage we were forced to
  Leave the Frontiers of the enemy & march for Hess Castle where we
  abode 3 weeks, till the Forrage appear'd in the Field, the French
  came down after us with one Army & Formed another near Lipstadt
  where we open'd the Campaing. It is strange indeed to hear the
  various accounts of the enemy amongst us for the perhaps not 3
  miles Distant from others their Number will by talk Increas or
  decreas 50000 in a Day, here they were given out for 190000 Men
  which I beleve Did not amount to more than 100000. Which was by
  far the supperior Number for ours was never 80000. So that at the
  eve of the Battle & for some weeks before All was Hush non knew
  aney thing till directly put in Execution. So great was the conduct
  of our Brave Prince Ferdinand, Orders for marching on the 1st of
  August was no sooner given than the French began to cannonade the
  Princes Quarters thinking to draw our army there when they would
  have flank'd us. But the Prince Left the Place, & March'd us to
  the Left. That with the Blessing of God altered the whole for they
  were briskly Repulsed & By the same means there great numbers was
  put to a Wofull Flight. It is true the sight and presence of the
  Field is terrable, But the Victory soon Dispell'd it. Altho many
  suffer'd on Both sides, Here the face of affairs were chang'd
  And we are almost so far advanc'd After them as where we fought
  at Bergen. There is scarce a Day but we gain some Advantage over
  them & with Little Loss on our side, so that if God continues his
  Favours on our army the enemy will soon Leave Germany. Marbourg
  surrendered the 1st Days Seige & Never a Man lost on our side.
  About 4 days ago we forc'd the out Posts of their flying Camp &
  got 800 prisoners. We Rejoiced here yesterday for the Good News
  from England & Saxony By fireing all the Cannon & small arms in
  the Field 3 times. The French Ly about 6 miles from us, we march
  foreward the morrow, so that if they dont Abandon their Campment we
  expect another engadgement soon. I have here Dear & Revd Sir I am
  afraid taken to much time in telling you the thing you have long
  since been acquaint with; But I hope you will excuse Me in so Doing
  and Remember me with my comerades at the Throne of Grace, Being
  confident of your care, I pray that God give your endevours the
  Blessing of Turning Many that Dwell in Darkness to Him, And that
  your Reward may be great, is the ernest Prayer Rev. Sir of your
  Most Obedient Servant--+William Knox+ Dragoon.

  "_If you Please Turn oer_

  "I will be obliged greatly if you would Answer this soon Derecting
  to Wm Knox Dragoon in the Royl. North British Dragoons Col.
  Prestons Troop With the Grand Alied Army--Germany. And Remember me
  earnestly to all my Worthy Friends that are your Hearers.

  "_N.B._--I had this By me since the 17th and has had no opertune
  of sending it away before this Date. We are now just by the French
  and its Beleved that we wont seperate Before we engadge again, we
  having been close to them these 7 days. A small River only parts
  us. The French head quarters is at Geeshen and ours at Stroffsdorf.
  Their Campment is strong and ours is the same. We saddle every
  Night & doe not unsadle till we see the enemy's Camp when the fog
  is off in the morning. Our Piquets and advanc'd Posts Lys by theirs
  all night & Returns to Camp when assured they are still.

                                    "_Kroffsdorf Camp 25th Sept 1759._"


                                       _Frampton, North Berwick,
                                                 25th November, 1906._

  +Dear Colonel Williams+,

  I do not know whether you ever heard of the following, or not--if
  not, then perhaps it may serve its purpose....

  During a big day at Aldershot, "the Greys," one of the cavalry
  regiments engaged, was missed from the scene of action in the Long
  Valley. A.D.C.'s, gallopers, and mounted orderlies were sent all
  over the place to find them.

  The commanding officer had simply dismounted his men, and got them
  into the "Cocked Hat" wood, and told them they might get their
  pipes out and take it easy. When at length found, an A.D.C. rode up
  to the colonel, and said that the general had missed the regiment,
  and was extremely put about in consequence, and told the commanding
  officer that he (the general) wished the regiment to retire behind
  the crest of some rising ground.

  It is reported that the commanding officer at that time, not being
  very good at handling his regiment, thought he saw his way out of
  the difficulty, and with great dignity said, "Young man, go back to
  your general, and tell him that the Greys _never_ retire." ...

                                                   +Montague Johnstone.+


       *       *       *       *       *

                                 _Somerset, Coleraine, Ireland,
                                                 25th November, 1906._

  +My dear Williams+,

  We were on the Curragh ... and next us were the old Gordons.
  We were always pointing out to them that, for Scotchmen in the
  ranks, they could not hold a candle to us. One day some of them
  came to us, and told us they had a batch of recruits coming,
  real Highlanders, such as we had not, "none of 'em had seen the
  English," and the band and pipes had gone to Newbridge to "march
  'em up." So down we all went to the outlet of the Newbridge road
  to see the arrival on the Curragh. Sure enough, soon we heard the
  pipes and saw the sporrans swinging, always a glorious sight! and
  on the boys came, straight from their mountains and glens. But,
  alas! as they passed us and came in full view of the Curragh, a
  young recruit in the ranks turned to his comrade and said, "Why,
  bust me, Billy, if this ain't Putney 'Eath without the pubs."
  Tableau! and triumphal march home of the old Greys.

  At the same period as this, one night the old Gordons poured
  through windows and doors into our mess and fairly wrecked us. So
  we joined forces and went for the 9th Lancers together in the same
  fashion. When all was smashed, all lights out, and everybody was
  leaning up against walls in torn and tattered mess uniform trying
  to get breath, in came a frightened mess waiter with a candle stuck
  in a ginger-beer bottle. This revealed a tablecloth on the floor
  still heaving up and down, the last struggle of a glorious fight.
  This was slipped away, and underneath was found the Junior Sub. of
  the Gordons tightly gripping the Colonel of the 9th Lancers by the
  throat--the chief nearly black in the face. But a more good-natured
  man never lived. He made it a subject of chaff, and a bond between
  all three regiments was thereby forged which I know will never be
  broken....

                                                        +J. A. Torrens.+


       *       *       *       *       *

  At Dundalk in 1868 during a good run with the Regimental Drag
  Hounds, a grey horse, Barabbas, owned and ridden by Lieutenant
  Bashford, pounded the field over a very boggy brook. At dinner
  the same evening, while discussing the extraordinary cleverness
  of the horse (after clearing the brook a native having roared out
  "Begorra, he changed on a trout"!), Mr. Wilkinson, the resident
  magistrate of Castle Bellingham, made a bet of £25 that Barabbas
  could not jump the mess-room table. The bet was at once accepted,
  and Mr. Bashford getting permission of the Colonel, went straight
  off to the stable, put on the saddle and bridle, and brought the
  horse into the mess-room. Captain Hicks, the paymaster, jumped on
  his back, and in a second had cleared the table.

  _Scene_--+The Crimea+, two or three days before the charge of
  Balaclava. The Scots Greys are mounted and drawn up in line behind
  a hill waiting for orders. Lieut.-Colonel Darby Griffiths is
  sitting on his horse in front of the centre of the line. To him
  comes a young and very excited staff officer at full gallop, who
  says: "Colonel, ten men who dare go anywhere and know no fear
  are wanted at once. They must be desperate fellows, as they have
  a desperate job to perform. Please let me have them as soon as
  possible." Old Darby Griffiths, scarcely turning in his saddle, and
  without a moment's hesitation: "Greys, from your right number off
  ten!"

                                                                   H. S.


       *       *       *       *       *

                             THE LOST DUCKS

  Some years ago a famous and historic cavalry regiment was moving
  from England to Ireland, marching by detachments, mostly of a
  troop each, to embark at Liverpool. These were billeted at nights
  in some town, foot and horse billets often widely scattered, and
  sometimes far separated one from the other. In the mornings, at the
  time appointed for marching away, all assembled at the rendezvous,
  usually the market-place, or a main street near the hotel where
  the officers were quartered. There a dense crowd watched the
  parade, the inspection, and the march off. On a certain occasion,
  the captain of C Troop, just before turning out, was interviewed
  by an angry, excited inn-keeper, who declared that the troopers
  billeted on him had stolen two of his fine, fat, white ducks. The
  captain assured him he must be mistaken, but that every means would
  be taken, if it were so, to detect and punish the culprits, and
  promised compensation. Owing to the great crowd round the parade,
  nothing could be done until clear of the town. On these marches,
  when horses were liable to sore backs and rubs from careless
  saddling, packing kit, girthing, etc., it was usual, after a trot,
  to halt a mile or so away from the billets, dismount, and carefully
  examine each horse and its equipment. On this occasion, the captain
  ordered kits to be unpacked, cloaks to be unrolled sufficiently to
  prevent the possibility of ducks being concealed in them. He then
  rode round the ranks drawn up on both sides of the road, and made
  a careful inspection. It revealed not even a feather of the ducks.
  From the next town he wrote to the aggrieved complainant, proving
  him to have been mistaken, and saying that such a charge should not
  have been brought against his men, who were incapable of stealing.

  It was some years before the truth became known to the captain.
  In those days, officers on the line of march sent their light
  baggage by train with their servants, and carried nothing on their
  horses except brushes and stable rubbers for smartening up before
  entering a town, but they were ordered to carry behind the saddle
  a long-shaped valise, supposed to hold the kit, but usually filled
  with hay or straw to prevent rubbing the horse's back.

  On that day the missing ducks were packed away in the captain's
  valise, and during his inspection and the whole of the day's march,
  he carried behind him the theft he was seeking to discover.

                                                       +A. C. E. Welby.+


       *       *       *       *       *

The following by very kind leave of the author, an old officer of the
Greys:--

                        THE BONNIE SCOTS GREYS.

                      (_Air_--"+Bonnie Dundee.+")

    Come Highland, come Lowland, lend ear to the praise
    Of the bravest of horsemen, your own gallant Greys;
    Ye Scots far away from your native land, come,
    Hear the fame of the Jocks, ever "Second to none."

        Come, Scots, drink a health to your "Second to none";
        To your own bonnie Greys, to their victories won;
        Come, drink to the luck of your Jocks, one and all,
        Wherever their trumpet of duty may call.

    O, see the grey horses come stepping along,
    So proud in their glory, so famous in song;
    Black bonnets of bearskin; O, where are the peers
    Of the men on grey horses, the Scots Grenadiers?

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    Their deeds are enshrined in the annals of war;
    They have rode down the French, times a hundred and a',
    And of standards and colours have ta'en such a store,
    Not a corps in the world that has ever won more.

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    Many hundreds of French they at Blenheim did chase,
    Penned them back in the village and made to cry grace;
    Then at Ramillies captured the Corps of the King
    And of standards a score with them homeward did bring.

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    See the white broider'd flag of the Household of France,
    Like its thunderbolt emblem, at Dettingen glance;
    "The giants have felt it," true motto that day,
    When the hands of the Scotsmen had borne it away.

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    Now fill a full glass to the old ninety-twa,
    So leal in their friendship, so gallant in war,
    With a "Scotland for ever," the Waterloo shout,
    When the Greys and the Gordons drove Frenchmen to rout.

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    "Ah, the beautiful Greys, I must crush them, I ween";
    But the Greys reached the hill where Napoleon had been,
    While the brave Sergeant Ewart an Eagle has ta'en,
    And the Union Brigade gathered laurels of fame.

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    Balaclava resounds with the shouts of the Greys;
    All the horsemen of Russia stand still with amaze;
    Each Grey hews a path through the dense-crowded horde,
    And the Russians spur homeward with willing accord.

                                  Come, Scots, drink a health, etc.

    Their deeds were their duty to Scotland, and a';
    Should the trumpet again sound the charge in a war,
    Not a Russian or Frenchman will e're dare to stay,
    When they hear the wild war shout of "Scotland for aye."

        Come, Scots, drink a health to your "Second to none";
        To your own bonnie Greys, to their victories won;
        Come, drink to the luck of your Jocks, one and all,
        Wherever their trumpet of duty may call.

                                                   +Alfred C. E. Welby.+

On the eastern wall of the north transept of Norwich Cathedral is a
memorial tablet as follows:--

                           To the memory of
           +Lieutenant-Colonel Sir Thomas Pate Hankin, Kt.+,
                          who died at Norwich
                          October 26th, 1825,
                     in the 60th year of his age.
          This tablet is placed here as a tribute of respect
                                by the
                  Officers of the Royal Scots Greys,
   in which regiment he had passed the greater part of his life, and
                             commanded it
                       at the time of his death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from letter by the Honourable Charles Hamilton to his brother,
George Baillie, during the Westphalian campaign. The original letter
belongs to Lord Binning, who allowed his cousin, Captain Lindsay,
to have this extract carefully made for him by the Honourable Hen.
Dalrymple, brother of the Earl of Stair.

  _Buna Camp, Aug. 28th, 1760._

  The Army stays where it was at Warburg. The Duke changed his
  quarters to Bunay a few days ago, it is about eight miles from
  Warburg. We are to march this day. The French marched from ground
  some time ago towards Cassel. The Hereditary Prince attacked their
  rearguard, the Grays & Inniskillings attacked some Cavalry, they
  were the only British Cavalry with the Prince, & tore them like
  pork & made dogs of them. In the persuit they were saluted with a
  fire from some infantry that killed several & wounded a good many.
  Col. Preston had his horse killed upon a bridge both he and his
  horse fell over, he was a good deal bruised.


                     NOTES ON CREICHTOUN'S MEMOIRS

               (_Kindly supplied by J. B. Dalzell, Esq._)

Creichtoun says:--

1. _He_ commanded at Ayrsmoss. (Bruce of Earlshall did.) "The Royalists
killed about sixty and took fourteen prisoners." (Nine only were killed
and five taken prisoners.)

2. The "rebels" at Drumclog were "eight or nine thousand strong."
(There were only 250 in all.)

3. Sir Robert Hamilton, who commanded at Drumclog was "a profligate who
had spent all his patrimony." (The evidence of the historian, Bishop
Barnet, and of other reputable authorities, is all the other way.)

4. The number of the "rebels" at Bothwell Bridge was 14,000, and the
bridge was "guarded with three thousand of the rebels." (Three thousand
is nearer the mark, with only two or three hundred guarding the bridge.)

5. The "rebels had set up a very large gallows in the middle of their
camp, and prepared a cartful of new ropes at the foot of it in order to
hang the king's soldiers." (This gallows was simply the usual permanent
gallows of the Sheriff Court of Lanarkshire Netherward.)

6. David Steele was dispatched by swords _in his absence_. (Steele
surrendered under promise of quarter and a fair trial. But Creichtoun
conveyed him to Steele's house, nearly a mile, and there in the
presence of the man's wife and her little babe, Mary Steele, ordered
the dragoons to shoot him. To their credit, the dragoons absolutely
refused and rode off, but the Highlanders, who probably knew Gaelic
only, and were therefore ignorant of Creichtoun's gross breach of
faith, fired.)

These six instances are but a sample of the exaggeration and mendacious
inventions only too common throughout Creichtoun's memoirs, and the
reader would therefore do well to hesitate before accepting what is not
corroborated by independent evidence.


                        NOTE ON GENERAL DALYELL

Immediately after the death of General Dalyell, his eldest son Thomas
was created a baronet of Nova Scotia. Considerably over one hundred
varieties in spelling this curious ancient Scottish surname have been
collected. The General and his father, the Sheriff of Linlithgowshire,
uniformly spelt their surname Dalyell, as their descendants are in the
habit of doing at the present day.

                                                          J. B. DALZELL.




INDEX OF NAMES

_To save confusion in compiling this list, all military titles have
been omitted. Owing to the great mass of names dealt with, it has
not been practicable to follow the fortunes of each individual. All
identical names, therefore, have been indexed under a single entry, and
names that differ in any respect whatever, even when belonging to the
same individual, have been dealt with separately._

  Abercromby, 27

  Abercromby, Alexander, 155

  Abercromby, Sir Ralph, 155, 156, 183

  Adair (2866), 98

  Adams, Michael Goold, 156

  Adams, R. H., 113, 114, 130

  Adams, Robert Henry, 156, 261

  Adelaide, Queen, 75

  Adolphus, Gustavus, 253

  Adye, Sir John, 81, 83

  Agnew, 136

  Agnew, Alexander, 156

  Agnew, Sir Andrew (5th Bart. of Lochnau), 157

  Agnew, Andrew, 29, 30, 156, 157, 287

  Agnew, Sir James, 29

  Agnew, James, 157, 287

  Agnew, Thomas, 30, 157, 158, 287

  Agniew, Francis, 145

  Ainger, Patrick, 158

  Ainslie, George, 158

  Aird (4752), 118

  Aird, Gilbert, 158

  Aird, Thomas, 158

  Airly, Earl of, 9, 14, 17

  Alacorn, William, 289

  Albany and York, James, Duke of, 14, 16

  Albemarle, Duke of, 5

  Alexander, James, 144, 287

  Alexander, Robert, 146

  Alexander, Hon. W. P., 85, 88, 102, 104, 158, 261

  Alisone, Anthony, 287

  Allen (4375), 98

  Allen, Charles Jefferys Watson, 158

  Allenby, 109, 114, 116, 117, 122, 127, 129

  Amherst, Lord, 52, 273

  Amphlett, Edward, 158

  Anandale, Earl of, 17

  Ancaster, 204

  Anderson, George, 159

  Anderson, James, 52, 53;
    _also see_ Hamilton

  Anderson, John, 53

  Anderson, Wm., 52, 53, 54

  Anderson, William, 54

  Andreson, Colbert, 145

  Andrewson, Jaems, 145

  Angus (3875), 110

  Angus, 271

  Anjou, Duke of, 21

  Anne, Princess, 227

  Anne, Queen, 32, 35, 36, 38, 192, 227

  Annesley, Charles, 159

  Antrobus, Philip, 159

  Arbuthnot, George, 159

  Archbald, Adam, 148

  Archer (4720), 110

  Argyle, Duke of, 30, 42, 204

  Armstrong, George, 159

  Armstrong, James J., 159

  Arthur, John, 289

  Ashburner, F. J., 159

  Ashby, J., 99

  Askew, Thomas, 159

  Askew, Thomas Cary, 159

  Atchison, Andrew, 149

  Atholl, John, 2nd Earl and 1st Marquis of, 227, 228

  Auchenleck, Alexander, 159

  Auchenleck, James, 160

  Augarde (4089), 98


  Babington, 88, 106

  Bacon, Anthony, 160

  Baden, Margrave of, 23

  Baillie, George (letter from Hon. Charles Hamilton), 295

  Baillie, John, 143, 144

  Baily (or Baillie) of Porkemat, John, 160

  Bainbridge, Robert, 160

  Baird (4446), 98

  Baird, John, 144

  Baird, William, 160

  Baisby, William, 289

  Baitson or Beatson(?), David, 160

  Baker (4346), 123

  Ballurnie, Balfour of, 71, 72

  Baldwyn, 25

  Balfour, George, 160, 203;
    _see_ Ramsay

  Balfour, Laird of Hackston and, 6

  Balfour, Henry, 160

  Balfour, Robert, 161

  Ballantyne, John, 161

  Balner, John, 145

  Banks, S. S. G. (4387), 127

  Bannerman, James, 287

  Bannerman, Maria, daughter of Sir Alexander Bannerman, 208

  "Barabbas," 292

  Barclay (3753), 94

  Baring, Henry, 161

  Barnard, Charles Levyns, 161, 289

  Barnard, Henry George, 161

  Barnet, Bishop, 295

  Barnet, Edward, 161

  Barron, 109

  Barton, 122

  Barton, J. W., 161

  Barwell, Osborne, 161

  Bashford, 292

  Bashford, George Frederick Alexander Mungo, 162

  Bastine, Henrick, 287

  Batereau, 167

  Bathew, John, 147

  Bathiani, 39

  Bavaria, Elector of, 26, 37

  Beatson, D. (3375), 132

  Beatson, David, 143, 144, 162

  Beck, James, 162

  Bell (4272), 99

  Bell (3359), 110

  Bell, David, 162

  Bell, Sir John, 8

  Bell, John, 148

  Bell, Patrick, 145

  Bell, R. (4709), 132

  Bell, William, 148

  Belville, 27

  Bennet, John, 162

  Bennet, William, 162

  Bennett, L. H., 162

  Benson, 126

  Bentein, John P., 162

  Bentinck, Lord William, 162

  Bernabe, William, 145

  Bethell, George, 163

  Betson, David, 163

  Betty, Rowland Veitch, 163

  Bevesen, Prince, 266

  Biggert, James, 163

  Binning, Lord (letter from Hon. Charles Hamilton), 295

  Bisket, John, 144

  Black, Alexander, 289

  Black, William Connel, 163

  Blackburn, John, 287

  Blacket, 263, 264

  Blackett, Edward, 163

  Blackie, Alexander, 163

  Blair, 214, 263

  Blair, Laird of, 18, 164

  Blair, Sir Adam, 18, 151, 163

  Blair, Sir Adam (younger), of Carberry, 163

  Blair, Sir Bryce, of Blair, 164

  Blair, Duncan, 287

  Blair, Hamilton, 164, 216

  Blair, John, 164

  Blair, Magdalene, of Blair, wife of Wm. Scott, 164

  Blair, Patrick, 151, 164, 182, 213, 227

  Blair, Thomas, 165

  Blair, William, of Blair, 164

  Blake, William J., 165

  Blane, William, 165

  Blansac, Monsieur, 27

  Blean, 165

  Blekirn, John, 148

  Block, 45

  Blucher, 51, 59

  Boardman, I. H., 206

  Boardman, J. Haydock, 165, 166, 206

  Bogle, George, 165

  Boll, James, 148

  Bolton, Edwin, 165

  Bonaparte, Napoleon, 50, 51, 56, 57, 59, 61, 63, 67, 77, 155, 283,
    287, 288, 294

  Bonham, E. H., 103, 125, 132

  Bontine, William Cunninghame, 166

  Borthwick, William, 146

  Botha, 97, 109

  Bothwell, Archibald, 166

  Bothwell, Earl of, 6

  Boyd, 78

  Boyd, Ninian, 166, 190

  Boyd, William, 166

  Bower, Robert, 166

  Bramly, Alwyn W. J., 166

  Brice, William, 289

  Brickdale, Matthew, 166

  Broadwood, 93

  Broglio, 44

  Brokonaig, John, 148

  Brooks, John, 289

  Brooks, R. (4962), 130

  Broun, Halbert, 287

  Broune, James, 149

  Brown, 266, 267, 270

  Brown, John, 166

  Brown, Mary Forman (daughter of Admiral William Brown), 201

  Brown, Samuel, 289

  Brown, Thomas, 148, 289

  Browne, Andrew Smythe Montague, 167

  Browne, Charles, 167

  Browne, Walter, 144

  Browning, Hugh Edmond, 167

  Bruce, 151, 167, 225

  Bruce (4831), 129

  Bruce of Earlshall, 295

  Bruce, Alexander, 143, 145, 167

  Bruce, Michael, 167

  Brunswick, Duke of, 288

  Brunswick, Prince Ferdinand of, 42, 44, 45, 155, 183

  Brush, John Ramsay, 167

  Brush, T. R., 77

  Brydone, James, 149

  Bryer, Richard, 148

  Buccleugh, Duke of, 6

  Buchan, Thomas, 218

  Buchanan, 78

  Buchanan, Archbal, 145

  Buchanan, David Carrick Robert Carrick, 167

  Buchanan, George, 168

  Buchanan, James, 149

  Buchanan, John, 287

  Bucksberg, Count de, 270

  Bulkeley-Johnson, Charles B., 102, 168, 261

  Bullen, Richard, 168

  Bulow, 45

  Bunbury, _see_ McClintock-Bunbury

  Bunbury, Sir Henry, of Kilsyth, 183

  Burford, Richard, 168

  Burghersh, Lord, 81

  Burgoyne, Sir John, 81

  Burgoyne, Sir Montague Roger, 8th Baronet, 168

  Burke, James Travers, 168

  Burnett, John, 144

  Bury, 267

  Bury, William, 168, 264

  Bussell, Charles, 168

  Butler, 122, 128

  Butler, George, 289

  Butler, Lady, 283

  Byton, 26


  Cadogan, 28

  Cairns (2328), 101

  Cairny, Sir Charles, 169

  Caldwell, 35

  Caledon, Earl of, _see_ Alexander

  Calhoune, Alexander, 144

  Callendar, Alexander, 145

  Caloell, Andrew, 148

  Calthaine, Heugh, 144

  Camden, Lord, 156

  Cameron, 11

  Campbell, 99, 102, 114, 268

  Campbell (4981), 103

  Campbell, Alexander, 169

  Campbell, Sir Colin, 83

  Campbell, Colin John, 169

  Campbell, Douglas, 169

  Campbell, H. M., 173

  Campbell, Hugh Montgomery, 169, 173

  Campbell, I. M., 204

  Campbell, Sir James, 37, 38, 39, 217

  Campbell, James, 213, 235

  Campbell, James Mure, 170, 204, 235

  Campbell, Hon. John, 170

  Campbell, John, 170, 287

  Campbell, Magdalene, wife of Wm. Blair of Blair, 164

  Campbell, Robert Lawrence, 170

  Campbell of Lawers, Sir James, 169, 213

  Cannon, George, 287

  Cannon, Richard, 33, 34, 37

  Cappagh, McDonnal, Laird of, 17

  Cardigan, Lord, 79

  Carmichal, Daniel, 147

  Carmichal, Douggal, 147

  Carnegie, John, 171

  Carruthers, 73

  Carruthers, George, 147

  Carruthers, J., 289

  Carruthers, James, 171

  Carruthers, John, 148

  Carruthers, William Francis, 174

  Carter, Henry, 171

  Cartwright, 282

  Casswell, 127

  Casswell (2765), 94

  Cathcart, Lord, 171

  Cathcart, Charles, 171

  Cathcart, of Craigengillan, The Hon. Frederick Macadam, 171, 172

  Cavallie, James, 172

  Cavendish, Lord, 5

  Chadwick, James, 172

  Charles i., King 17, 164, 218, 243, 248

  Charles ii., King, 2-6, 13, 17, 243, 253, 283

  Charles vi., Emperor, 37

  Charles, Prince, 248

  Charteris, Hon. Lilian Harriet, daughter of Lord Elcho (Earl Wemyss), 233

  Cheatham (or Chetham), Thomas, 172

  Chebeart, 268

  Cheney, 71, 73

  Cheney, Edward, 172

  Chichester, Bishop of, 24

  Christie, Archibald, 173

  Christie, James, 173

  Christie, William, 289

  Christy, John, 145

  Church, 196

  Churchill, 26, 27, 31, 203;
    _see_ Marlborough

  Clape, 69

  Clark, or Clarke, 54, 71, 73, 78, 93

  Clark, J. S., 132

  Clark, May Janet, eldest daughter of the late Sir William J. Clark,
    1st Baronet, 216

  Clarke, 158, 224

  Clarke (4626), 115

  Clarke, George Calvert, 173

  Clarke, I. G., 201

  Clarke, Isaac Blake, 173, 201

  Clarke, John Fred. Sales, 173

  Claverhouse, John Graham of, 14;
    _see_ Clavers

  Clavers, 7, 11

  Clayton, 238

  Clealland, John, 149

  Cleghorn, George, 285

  Cleghorn, William, 148

  Cleghorne, George, 174

  Cleland, 177

  Cleland, Samuel Frederick Stewart, 174

  Cleland, or Clelland, William, 3, 143, 149, 150, 163, 174

  Clelland, Andrew, 148

  Clements (4086), 123

  Clerambaut, Monsieur, 27

  Clermont, Count de, 39

  Clinton, Sir Henry, 288

  Clogg, Andrew, 147

  Coatts, Gideon, 144

  Cochrane (3007), 89

  Cochrane, R. (5034), 130

  "Cock of the North," _see_ Gordon, Duke of

  Cockburn, 129

  Cockburn, Devereux P., 174

  Cockran, Thomas, 174

  Cocksedge, Martin Thomas, 174

  Coffield (4749), 132

  Colhoun, James, 174

  Collear, James, 146

  Collins, W. F., 86, 97, 121, 126

  Collins, William Fellowes, 175

  Colt, Charles R., 175

  Colvill, James, 145

  Colvin (4527), 110

  Colwar, David, 147

  Colyear, Sir David, Baronet, 235

  Comeiras, M. de, 46

  Common, James, 175

  Coningham, Alexander, 167

  Connaught, Duke of, 90, 175

  Connolly, T., 90, 98, 102

  Conolly, Thomas, 98, 175, 261

  Consort, Queen, 185

  Conyngham, Alexander, 175

  Conyngham, George Henry, Marquess Conyngham, _see_ Mountcharles

  Conynham, 264

  Cope, 193

  Cope, Joseph, 175

  Cormie (4326), 94

  Cornwallis, Lord, 187

  Corrie, John, 175

  Cotton, Stapleton, 49

  Coupland, John, 289

  Coutts, D. (3803), 131

  Cowan, 278

  Cowan, James, 144

  Cowan, John, 144, 175

  Cowan, Robert, 175

  Crabbie, J., 85, 88, 109, 113, 120, 121, 124, 128, 133, 176

  Craig, John, 287, 289

  Craig, Robert, 289

  Craig, William, 146, 148, 289

  Craigie, Lawrence, 176

  Craigiehall, Lord, 243

  Craven, Charles, 176

  Craw, Robert, 150

  Crawfoord, William, 287

  Crawford, 125, 210

  Crawford, Earl of, 216

  Crawford, George, 149

  Crawford, John, Earl of, 176

  Crawford, Robert Gregan, 177

  Crawford, William, 177, 191, 192, 214, 272, 274

  Crawford-Lindsay, Lord, 176

  Creasy, Sir Edward, 24

  Creichtoun, 295, 296

  Creighton, David, 289

  Crichton, or Creighton, John, 6, 17, 18, 143, 149, 150

  Crichton, David, 144, 177

  Crichton, John, 177

  Crichtoun, Alexander, 149

  Croft, Stephen, 178

  Cronje, 90

  Crossbie, Charles, 178

  Cruickshank (4237), 132

  Cuithall, John, 147

  Cumberland, Duke of, 38, 39, 40, 157

  Cunningham, 185

  Cunningham, David, 178

  Cunningham, Lady Jean, 164

  Cunningham, John, 178, 185

  Cunningham, W. (3358), 87

  Currie (3511), 98

  Currie, R. (4535), 131

  Currier, David, 144

  Cushnay, John, 147

  Cutts, Lord, 21, 25, 26, 27


  Dale, 268

  D'Allegre, Marquis, 29

  Dalrymple, Anne (daughter of Sir Robert Dalrymple), of Castleton, 217

  Dalrymple, Hon. Henry (letter from Hon. Charles Hamilton), 295

  Dalrymple, James, 178

  Dalrymple, John (Earl of Stair), 246

  Dalrymple, J. O., 20

  Dalyell, J. B., 295, 296

  Dalyell, Thomas;
    _see_ Dalzell, Dalziel

  Dalzell, Dalziel, or Dalyell, Sir Thomas, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 15,
    16, 136, 143, 144, 160, 227, 259, 283, 284, 285, 286, 296

  Dalzell, William, 145

  D'Arco, Count, 23

  Dartnell, 111

  Davey, Edward, 178

  Davies, Christian ("Mother Ross"), 31, 32

  Dawler, George, 179

  Dawn, Robert, 179

  Dawson, Joshua, 289

  Dawson, Thomas, 289

  Dawson, William, 179

  Deacon, Joseph Barrington, 179

  Deane, Hon. Matthew Fitzmaurice, 179

  Delavally, William, 179

  De mol, Peter, 145

  Denham, Sir James Stewart, Bart., 179, 183

  D'Erbon, Count, 63

  Desnouville, Marquis, 27

  Dick, Jaems, 145

  Dickers, David, 144

  Dickson, David Ronald, 179

  Dickson, John, 180

  Dirandol, 270

  Disney, --, 180

  Dixon, 104

  Dodds, John, 289

  Doherty, Charles Wilshere Onslow, 180

  Donaldson, James, 147

  Donaldson, Robert, 289

  Donaldsone, Andrew, 149

  Donnithorne, 72

  Donnithorne, Edward George Moore, 181

  Dorchester, Catherine, Countess of, 235

  Dougal, John, 289

  Douglas, 23, 43, 106, 174, 175, 181, 231, 240, 264, 266, 272, 282

  Douglas, James, 149, 181, 287

  Douglas, John, 181, 189, 194, 204, 229

  Douglas, Robert, 287

  Douglas, Sir William, 181

  Douglas, William, 181

  Dounes, Robert, 181

  Downie (3401), 98

  Downie, William, 144

  Drewe, Francis, 181

  Drumlangrig, Earl of, 285

  Drummond, 270

  Drummond, George, 154

  Drummond, Harry, 148

  Drummond, Henry, 143, 182

  Drummond, John, 147

  Du Cane, Percy Charles, 182

  Duckworth, Arthur Campbell, 182

  Dumbar, Robert, 146

  Dun, Jon, 149

  Dunbar, George, 30, 182

  Dunbar, James Brander, 182

  Dunbar, John, 30

  Dunbar, Thomas, 146

  Duncan, George, 287

  Duncan, John, 148

  Duncan, William, 148

  Dundas, 237

  Dundas, Sir David, 182

  Dundas, of Dundas, Marian, 164

  Dundas, of Dundas, Walter, 164

  Dundas, Henry, 3, 143, 147, 148, 184

  Dundas, James, 143, 146, 184, 185

  Dundas, Robert, 182

  Dundee, Lord, 17, 18

  Dundee, Viscount, 164

  Dunkellin, Lord, 82

  Dunlop, 97

  Dunmore, Rt. Hon. Earl of, 17, 18, 143, 151, 169

  Dunmore, family of Earl of, 227;
    James (Viscount Fincastle); John; William Robert; Thomas; Charles;
      Henriet; Anne; Catherine, 227

  Dunster, John, 149

  Dupon, Monsieur, 26

  Durrham, David, 147

  Dyet (3432), 95


  Earlshall, Bruce of, 295

  Easone, Andrew, 144

  Eastoun, Alexander, 147

  Eastwood, Hugh De C., 184

  Ebsworth, A., 91, 99

  Edgar, 268

  Edlmann, Charles Gasper, 184

  Edmiston, George, 146

  Edmistone, William, 146

  Edmond, John Cornelius, 219

  Edmond, of Stirling, 218

  Edmonstone, W., 144

  Edward i., King, 213

  Edwards (3909), 111

  Edwards, Herbert, 184

  Eglinton, Catherine (daughter of the 9th Earl of Eglinton), 191

  Eglintoun, Earl of, 169

  Elison, Robert, 145

  Ellingworth, George, 289

  Elliot, 11, 12

  Elliott, 268

  Elphinstone, James Drummond, 185

  Emperor, 23

  Ensor, E. T. S., 90, 95

  Erie, Christopher, 185

  Ernwing, William, 145

  Erskine, James, 185

  Erskine, William, 185

  Erwesadle, 267

  Espellin, Francis, 145

  Estoff, 270

  Eugene, Prince, 25, 35, 169, 170

  Ewart, 60, 71, 72, 294

  Ewing, Thomas, 145


  Falcon, George, 149

  Falconar, G. H., 185, 261

  Farloph, John, 147

  Farquhar, Francis Glennie, 186

  Farquharson, John, 147

  Farquharson, Peter, 186

  Fawcett, J. F. M., 121

  Fawcett, Richard Twistleton, 186

  Feilden, William Leyland, 186

  Fenton, Thomas Charles, 186

  Fenwick, 161

  Fenwick, Robert Orde, 186

  Ferguison, Peter, 187

  Fergus (4586), 110

  Ferguson, 25

  Ferguson, Gilbert, 148

  Ferguson, Patrick, 187

  Ferguson of Pitfours, James, 187

  Fergusson, James, 289

  Fergusson, John, 186

  Ferlong, Robert Stein, 190

  Ferrier, George, 266

  Ffallrond or ffallrond, John, 148

  ffleming, Archibald, 287

  Fforbes or fforbes, George, 147

  fforbes, James, 287

  Fforbes or fforbes, William, 145

  Ffordyce (or ffordyce), Andrew, 287

  Ffrench or ffrench, Alexander, 144

  Ffrissall or ffrissall, Duncan, 149

  Fielden (_see_ Feilden), Cecil William Montague, 86, 106, 110, 113,
    120, 122, 125, 126, 132, 186, 261

  Fielden, J., 125

  Fielden, Sir William, Bart., _see_ Hozier, Catherine Margaret

  Fielding, Lord, 159

  Filgate, Townley Patten Hume Macartney, 188

  Fincastle, Viscount, 227;
    _see_ Murray, Lord Charles

  Finlay, I. A., 85, 104, 106, 108, 110

  Finlay, T. (3672), 115

  Fintry, Jaems, 145

  Finzell, Conrad William Curling, 188

  Firmstone, William Francis, 188

  Fisher, Ralph Bromfield Willington, 188

  Fisher, Richard, 253

  Fitzroy, 270

  Fleming, Peter Fraser, 114, 188

  Fletcher, Fitzroy Charles, 188

  Foord, Robert, 145

  Foot, Randal, 188

  Forbes, Alexander, 189

  Forbes, Duncan, 289

  Forbes, John, 173, 189

  Forbess, John, 178

  Forde, Francis Charles, 189

  Fordyce, R. D., 86, 89, 94

  Forrester, 86

  Forrester of Corstorphine, Lord George, 189

  Fortescue, Elizabeth, daughter of Chichester Fortescue, 219

  Fortescue, Hon. J. W., 49

  Fortescue, Joseph, 190

  Foster, Charles Percival, 86, 100, 126, 190

  Fowke, Thomas, 190

  Fowler, 11

  Foy, 270

  Frame, Andrew, 190

  Fraser (3369), 98

  Fraser (4357), 99

  Fraser, L. C. (4643), 115, 129

  Fraser, Simon (Lord Lovat), 248

  Fraser, Sir William, 288

  Freeman (3663), 98

  Freeman, John, 190

  Freeman, John Arthur, 191

  Freestone, John, 191

  French, 89, 90, 96, 98, 103, 105, 109, 112, 134

  Frost, John, 289

  Fulertoun, James Carnegie, 191

  Furnier, John, 191


  Galloway, William (third son of James, 5th Earl of Galloway), 191

  Gamble, 105

  Gape, James, 191

  Garbraith, William, 146

  Gardiner, James, 191, 192, 193

  Gardiner, Patrick, of Torwood Head, 192

  Gardinier, Patrick, 145

  Gardner, John, 193

  Garioch, David, 193

  Garioch, George, 193

  Garrett (3614), 94

  Garrett, 113

  Garth, 282

  Gaskell, John Francis Upton, 193

  Geddes, --, 194

  Geddes, John Gordon, 193

  George, 43

  George i., King, 28

  George ii., King, 36, 37, 38, 138, 188

  George iii., King, 47

  George iv., King, 75

  George Henry, Earl of Mountcharles, 226

  George, Prince, 26

  Gerard, Lord, 5

  Gibb, James, 10, 149

  Gibb, John, 144

  Gibb, Patrick, 144

  Gibson (3674), 129

  Gibson, David, 194

  Gibson, John, 194

  Gilbert, Thomas, 194

  Gilbraith, James, 194

  Gill, -- (Surgeon), 194

  Gillespie, Pat, 148

  Gillies, John, 194

  Gillon, 212

  Gillon, A., 166, 194

  Gillon, Andrew, 163, 194, 212

  Gilso, 268

  Girvan, James, 195

  Glen (3147), 118

  Glen (4225), 132

  Glencairn, Earldom of, 178

  Glencairn, William, 8th Earl of, 164

  Glendining, Adam, 195

  Goddard, Samuel, 195

  Godly, John, 195

  Gonne, Thomas, 195

  Gooch, Jaems, 145

  Goodall, John, 148

  Goodfellow, David, 149

  Gordon, 102, 109

  Gordon, Lord Adam, 282

  Gordon, Alexander, 287

  Gordon, Charles, 195

  Gordon, Charles, of Buthlau, 196

  Gordon, 4th Duke of, the "Cock of the North," 288

  Gordon, Lady Elizabeth, daughter of Charles Gordon, 2nd Earl of
    Aboyne, 219

  Gordon, George, 147, 195

  Gordon, Henry, 195

  Gordon, Nathaniell, 287

  Gordon, Samuell, 287

  Gordon, Thomas, 196

  Gough, John Bloomfield, 197

  Goulburn, Frederick, 197

  Graham (4662), 105

  Graham, Alexander, 148

  Graham, Frederick Ulric, 197

  Graham, James Reginald Tovin, 197

  Graham, R. (4755), 121

  Graham, Thomas, 287

  Graham, Walter, 287

  Grahame, George, 149

  Grahame, John, 149

  Grahame, William, 150

  Granby, Marquis of, 269, 270

  Granford, Andrew, 149

  Grant, --, 197

  Grant, Alexander, 197

  Grant, Duncan, 146

  Grant, John, 146, 149

  Grant, Robert, 150

  Grant, Walter Colquhoun, 198

  Grant, Sir William Keir, 198

  Gratrix, Thomas Price, 198

  Gray, Alexander, 289

  Gray, E. (3955), 132

  Gray, James, 287

  Gray, Mathew, 148

  Gray, Patrick, 145

  Gray, Hon. William, 198

  Gray, William John, 14th Lord, 198

  Grayburn, John Uppleby, 198

  Greenfield, Rev., 106

  Gres, E. M. W., 39

  Grey, John, 198

  Grey, Patrick, 198

  Grieve, John, 199

  Griffin, 46

  Griffith, Darby, 78

  Griffith, Henry Darby, 199

  Griffiths, 129

  Griffiths, Darby, 293

  Griffiths, John, 199

  Grig, Alexander, 145

  Gristock, Emanuel, 199

  Grive, Alexander, 146

  Grive, David, 146

  Grym, Robert, 145

  Grym, William, 145

  Guize, 242

  Guthrie, John, 149

  Gwynn, 282


  Hackston and Balfour, Laird of, 6

  Hagan (4304), 98

  Haig (3762), 90

  Hall, 267

  Hall (3705 _or_ 3075(?)), 108

  Hall, John, 199, 289

  Hall, John Rose, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59

  Hall, William, 146

  Halling, John, 287

  Haltorn, 265

  Hamilton, 52, 53, 54, 55, 69, 72, 119, 162, 192, 289

  Hamilton, Alexander, 199

  Hamilton, Archibald, 199

  Hamilton, Archibald James, of Dalziel, 54

  Hamilton, Bruce, 124

  Hamilton, Hon. Charles, letter from, 295

  Hamilton, D., 278

  Hamilton, Digby, 200

  Hamilton, G., 126, 130, 132

  Hamilton, Inglis, 52, 53, 54, 55

  Hamilton, James, 144

  Hamilton, James (or Anderson), 52, 53, 54, 61, 68, 69, 71, 173;
    _see_ Anderson, James

  Hamilton, James Campbell, 200

  Hamilton, James Inglis, 173, 200

  Hamilton, John, 200

  Hamilton, M.P., John G. C., 61

  Hamilton, John Potter, 174, 200

  Hamilton, Lady Margaret, 164

  Hamilton, Sir Robert, 295

  Hamilton, William, 200

  Hamilton, William, 2nd Duke of, 164

  Hamley, Sir Edward B., 82, 83, 84

  Hampson, Sir George Francis, Bart., 201

  Hampson, Sir George Francis (8th Baronet), 201

  Handley, 78

  Handley, Henry Edwardes, 201

  Hankin, Sir Thomas Pate, 201;
    Tablet in memory of, 295

  Hankins, 70, 72

  Harbid, John, 148

  Hardie, Dr., 60

  Hardy, E. G., 99

  Hardy, S. J., 134

  Hardy, Thomas C., 201

  Hare, Mr., chaplain to the Duke of Marlborough, 24, 28;
    _see_ Chichester

  Harley, Mr. Secretary, 202

  Harness, John, 289

  Harper (3576), 110

  Harris (4394), 91

  Harris, Claudius S., 201

  Harris, William, 150

  Harrison, John, 144

  Harrison, J. C., 86, 100, 101

  Harrison, John Collinson, 201, 261

  Hart, 106

  Hartley, Andrew, 287

  Hartley, William, 287

  Hartnell, 266

  Harve, Thomas, 149

  Harvey, 65, 267, 268

  Hastings (4879), 129

  Hautefeuille, Monsieur, 27

  Hawke, The Hon. Chaloner, 201

  Hawkesley, Archibald Campbell Douglas, 202

  Hawksworth, Francis, 202

  Hawley, F. H. T., 85, 94

  Hawley, Francis Henry Toovey, 202, 261

  Haxton, 11

  Hay (3382), 86

  Hay, Andrew, 202

  Hay, Sir Alexander, 202

  Hay, George, 202

  Hay or Hayes, Lord John, 22, 23, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 202, 203, 218

  Hay, Sir John, 203

  Hay, Louis, 202

  Hay, Peter, 203

  Hay, Lord Robert, 195, 203

  Hay, Sir Robert, 159, 203

  Hay, Thomas, 212

  Hay, Sir Thomas, 185, 203

  Hay, Sir Thomas, Bart., 203

  Haynes, F. H., 203

  Head (3645), 132

  Hely, Joseph, 204

  Henderson, Donald, 146

  Hendersone, James, 149

  Hendrie, William, 147

  Henley, Hon. A. M., 105, 111, 125, 126

  Henry, John Lewis Vaughan, 204

  Hepburn, Alexander, 204, 242

  Hepburn, William, 204, 264

  Herbert, Richard Austin, 204

  Heritage, Ernest Frederick, 204

  Hermistoun, John, 144

  Heron, 272, 274

  Heron, Anthony, 204

  Heron, Basil, 204, 206, 229, 245, 247, 252, 258

  Heron, John, 146

  Hesse, 270

  Hesse, Prince Charles of, 268

  Heyman, Augustus William, 205

  Hibbert, Frederick Drummond, 205

  Hickey (4035), 103

  Hicks, 292

  Hill, Lord, 288

  Hill, Arthur Moyses William, Baron Sandys of Ombersley, 241

  Hill, Lord Arthur W. M., 205;
    _see_ Sandys

  Hill, Charles, 205

  Hill, Lord William Frederick Arthur Montague, 205

  Hinslies, 265

  Hippisley, William Henry, 85, 88, 89, 104, 112, 113, 115, 116, 118,
    119, 121, 122, 123, 125, 127, 129, 130, 131, 135, 205

  Hobart, George, 206

  Hodenberg, 267

  Hodgson, --, 206

  Holden, R. M., 287

  Hollingworth, Dennis, 206

  Holstein, Duke of, 270

  Home, 251, 266, 271, 272

  Home, David, 170, 174, 189, 206, 229, 240, 241, 245

  Home, John Purves, 206

  Home, Thomas, 144

  Hompesch, 200

  Honeywood, Sir Philip, 281

  Honyman, John Ord, 206

  Hood (4981), 133

  Hoop, Ritchard, 145

  Hop, David, 149

  Hord, John, 148

  Horne (4632), 111

  Horne, 264

  Horne, David, 165

  Hosier, --, 207

  Hotham, Charles, 268

  Houldsworth, James H., 207

  Houston, William, 149

  Howe (3332), 99

  Howe, Sir W., 174

  Hozier, Catherine Margaret, daughter of Sir William Fielden, Bart., 207

  Hozier, Frances Ann, daughter of James O'Hara, 207

  Hozier, James, Deputy-Lieutenant for the County of Lanark, 207

  Hozier, John W., 52, 54, 68

  Hozier, John Wallace, 207

  Hozier, William Wallace, 207

  H. S. (letter from), 292-3

  Hughes (4306), 96

  Hughes (3526), 110

  Hull, William Hartop, 207

  Hulson, 25

  Hulte, 270

  Humphrey, John William, 207

  Humphries (3564), 116

  Humphries (4764), 129

  Hunt, Thomas, 207

  Hunter, 78

  Hunter, John, 287

  Hunter, Robert, 208

  Hunter, Robert Scot, 208

  Hutchinson, J. L. M., 105, 111, 118, 122, 125

  Hutchison, Walter, 149

  Hutton, 209

  Hyde, 282


  Imhoff, 270

  Inglis, ----, 208

  Inglis, John, 2, 3, 53, 143, 147, 148, 184, 208, 214, 259

  Inglish, James, 146, 147

  Ingoldsby, 27

  Inkster (2423), 91

  Inneis, Patrick, 145

  Innes, James, 143, 145, 208

  Innes, John, 147

  Inverurie, Lord, 208

  Inverury, Lord William, 208

  Ipsilanti, 196

  Irvine, Anne, daughter of Sir Alexander Irvine, of Drum, 231

  Irving, Alexander, 149

  Irving, Edward, 149

  Irving, James, 143, 144, 149, 209

  Irwin, James, 151

  Isenbourg, His Serene Highness Prince, 264, 265


  Jackson, Basil, 209

  Jackson, Peter Nevill, 209

  Jacob, George Thomson, 209

  James ii., King, 18, 164, 167, 240, 249, 259

  James, Charles, 209

  James, George, 209

  James, William Christopher, 209

  Jameson, John, 289

  Jebb, John, 210

  Jessop, Thomas, 210

  Johnson, _see_ Bulkeley-Johnson

  Johnson, Andrew, 145

  Johnson, Dixon, 88

  Johnson, Garirn, 289

  Johnson, Lawrence, _see_ Johnston, Lawrence

  Johnson, Walter, 210

  Johnston, 161, 276, 282

  Johnston, George, 145, 210

  Johnston, James, 165, 210

  Johnston, Lawrence, 199, 210

  Johnston, Montague George, 211, 261

  Johnston, Richard, 211

  Johnston, Thomas, 146

  Johnston, William, 211

  Johnstone, 282

  Johnstone, H. G., 211

  Johnstone, James, 144

  Johnstone, John, 148

  Johnstone, Montague (letter from), 292

  Johnstoune, William, 287

  Jolly, David, 287

  Jones (3711), 89

  Jones, Hugh, 32

  Jones, Owen Goodman, 211

  Jones, Richard J., 211

  Jones, Robert, 211


  Kana, Barbara (Baroness de Pedaiges), 196

  Kapell, James, 148

  Keith-Falconer, William, Earl of Kintore, etc., 208

  Keith, George, 144, 148

  Keith, Gideon, 211

  Keith (or Kieth), R. M., 264

  Kekewich, 121, 122

  Kellot, 267

  Kennedy, A. K. Clark, 211

  Kennedy, David, 287

  Kennedy, James, 211

  Kennedy, Lockhart Mure Hartley Kennedy, 212

  Kenyon, Gabriel, 212

  Keogh (3594), 106

  Ker, Andrew, 147

  Ker Fox (letter to Col. Williams), 291

  Ker, James, 146, 147, 212

  Ker, Thomas, 147

  Kerin (2928), 95

  Kerr, 129

  Kerr, ----, 212

  Kerr, Alexander, 289

  Kerr, Rev. Cathel, 88, 91

  Kerr, George, 147

  Kerr, John, 212

  Kerr, John S., 185, 194, 212

  Kerr, Robert, 148

  Kerr, William John, Marquis of Lothian, Earl of Ancram, etc., 219

  Kidd (3918), 94

  Kidd, John, 289

  Kiddy, David, 287

  Kilgour (3333), 93

  Kilsythe, Lord, 17, 18

  Kimber, 85

  Kinchant, F. C., 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60

  Kinchant, Francis Charlton, 212

  Kinchant, T. C., 289

  King (4311), 98

  King, Andrew, 212

  King, John, 9

  King, John Henry, 213

  Kingsley, 45, 46, 270

  Kingston (or Kingstoun), Viscount, 2, 243, 249

  Kinnaird, ----, 213

  Kinnaird, Lord, of Inchture, 213

  Kinnaird, Sir George, of Inchture, 213

  Kinnaird, Radulphus, Baron of, 213

  Kinnaird, Reginald, 213

  Kinnaird, Richard de, 213

  Kirkaldy, Margery, heiress of Sir John Kirkaldy, of Inchture, 213

  Kirkcudbright, Earl of, 253

  Kirkwood, John, 213

  Kitchen (3057), 98

  Kitchener, Lord, 126

  Kitchener, Walter, 125

  Knaphausen, 267

  Knight, Andrew, 289

  Knox, 111

  Knox, Andrew, 146

  Knox, James, 146, 287

  Knox, George, 213

  Knox, William (letter from), 291

  Knyphausen, 187

  Kutahi, 196


  Lacker (4412), 103

  Ladoll, John, 148

  Lagge, 206

  Laigh, 278

  Lalbrow, John, 147

  La Lippe, Count, 268

  Lander, 266

  Lander, George, 213

  Lander, Lewis, 214

  Lander, Mr., 278

  Largs, William, 149

  Lassellee, William, 145

  Lategan, 121

  Latimer, Andrew, 148

  Lauder, 213

  Lauder, George, 146, 213

  Lauder, James, 146

  Lauder, John, 3

  Lauder, Lewis, 143, 147, 214

  Lauder, W. (4727), 123

  Lauderdale, 5, 6

  Lauderdale, Earl of, 285, 286

  Law, 199, 229, 259, 264

  Law, Mungo, 174, 179, 214, 229, 259

  Lawler, George, 214

  Lawley, 133

  Lawrence (4049), 115

  Lawrence, John, 287

  Lawrence, William, 214

  Lawson, 69

  Lawson, Algernon, 85, 102, 118, 214

  Lawson, James, 144

  Lawsone, Alexander, 287

  Leach, William, 289

  Leader, William Nicholas, 215

  Legge, 206

  Legge, Lever, 215

  Leigh, John, 215

  Leigh, Thomas, 215

  Leishman, Alexander, 215

  Leith, James, 215

  Lennox, Lord George, 46

  Lennox, John, 215

  Lesly, David, 7

  Leslie, Thomas, 215

  Levingston, James, 151, 216

  Levingston (Livingstone), Sir Thomas, 18, 19, 20, 218

  Levingstoun, William, 184, 216

  Levingstoun, William (of Kilsyth), 216

  Levingston, James, 216

  Levita, Harry P., 216

  Lewis (3849), 98

  Leyson, Jenkyn, 216

  Leyton (or Leyson), Jenkin, 216

  Lidderdale, William Robertson, 216

  Liddle, James, 289

  Liddle, John, 216

  Lidsey (3886), 123

  Ligonier, 270

  Ligonier, Lord John, 38, 40

  Lillithorne, John, 146

  Lin, George, 145

  Lindsay, 129, 266, 268, 283

  Lindsay, Alexander, 149

  Lindsay, Francis, 41, 42, 163, 220

  Lindsay, Lady Jean (eldest daughter of George Lindsay, 18th Earl of
    Crawford and Lindsay), 185

  Lindsay (letter from Hon. Charles Hamilton), 295

  Lindsay, The Hon. Robert Hamilton, 86, 102, 216

  Lindsaye, James, 149

  Lindsey, George Haywood (or Hayward), 217

  Lindsey, James, Earl of Balcaras, 217

  Linlithgow, Earl of, 9, 13, 14

  Linnell (3433), 103

  Lion, King William the, 213

  Liprandi, 83, 84

  Litquhor, Robert, 148

  Littledale, Herbert C. T., 217

  Livingston, John, 3, 143, 148, 149, 215, 217

  Livingstone, Sir Alexander, 219

  Livingstone, Henry, 144

  Livingstone, John, 263

  Livingstone, Robert, 148

  Livingstoun, 215

  Livingstoun, John, 217

  Llewellyn, Jenkin Homfray, 219

  Lloyd, Mark, 219

  Lockwood, Augustus Purefoy, 219

  Logan, Patrick, 145

  Lomer, R. E. McI., 85, 86, 94, 101

  Long, W., 86, 89, 94, 102, 116

  Long, Rt. Hon. Walter, 121

  Lorrayn, Edward, 147

  Lothian, Marquis of, 219

  Loudoun, George, 147

  Loudoun, 2nd Earl of, 169

  Louis xiv., King, 37

  Louis xvi., King, 48

  Louis xviii., King, 58

  Louthian, James, 220

  Love, James, 289

  Low, Thomas, 149

  Lowther, Lewis, 220

  Lucan, Lord, 79

  Luders, Theodore, 284

  Ludlow, Abraham, 220

  Lukin, Frederick William, 220

  Lumley, 27

  Lumsden, Sir James, 253

  Lyle, Robert, 289

  Lyndsay, Francis, 220

  Lynn (3352), 89

  Lyon, Henry Dalton Wittit, 220

  Lyon, James, 220

  Lyon, John, 147


  Maberly, James Charles, 220

  Macadam, Quentin, 172

  MacCulloch, John, 289

  MacDonald, Alexander, 145

  MacDougall, George, 221

  MacGregor, Duncan, 148

  MacGrigor, Grigor, 145

  MacGruther, Duncan, 148

  MacLeod, Donald John M., 221

  MacLeod, James, 221

  MacMillan, Jaems, 145

  Macauly, Hugh, 289

  Machele, John, 221

  Mackay, 282

  Mackay, David A. A., 222

  Mackay, Hugh, 218

  Mackenzie, John, 223

  Mackenzie, Lewis, 223

  Mackenzie, Peter, 52

  Mackie, Alexander, 289

  Mackie, Robert, 289

  Mackintosh, Laird of, 17

  Macmillan, 71

  Maconochie, Francis Beaufort, 222

  Macquarie, Lachlan, 222

  Maillie, William, 144

  Main, John, 289

  Maitland, Frederick Colin, styled Viscount Maitland, 223

  Maitland, John, 144

  Maitland, Peter, 148

  Malcolm, James, 145

  Malerly, 270

  Mallard, Thomas, 223

  Manwell, Thomas, 287

  Mar, Earl of, 13, 14

  Marischall, 143

  Markham, Robert, 223

  Marlborough, 203

  Marlborough, Duke of, 247, 285

  Marlborough, Earl of, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31,
    34, 35, 36, 42, 157, 189, 247

  Marshall, G., 287

  Marshall, Patrick, 149

  Martin (3896), 110

  Martin, Andrew, 149

  Mary, Queen, 20, 26

  Masterson, John, 121

  Mather, Gavin, 289

  Matthews, James, 144

  Maude, 84

  Maude, Eustace Addison, 85, 97, 106, 111, 113, 125, 127, 133, 223, 262

  Maule, Viscount, of Whitechurch, 231

  Maule, William, of Kellie, 231

  Maxwell, 45

  Maxwell, Charles James, 86, 87, 98, 101, 224

  McAdam (4568), 114

  McAlexander, Robert, 149

  McAlla, George, 289

  McArthur, John, 289

  McBean, Thomas Hamilton, 221

  McCallam, Patrick, 221

  McCallum, Daniel, 144

  McClintock-Bunbury, John William, 221

  McClintock-Bunbury, Thomas Kane, 221, 262

  McClintock-Bunbury, Hon. William, 89, 262

  McColl, Mathew, 148

  McCombie, D., 103, 108, 110, 132

  McCoy, 17

  McCulloch (3294), 98

  McCulloch, James, 144

  McCulloch, Robert, 146

  Mcdonald, James, 287

  McDonnal, Laird of Cappagh, 17

  McDonnels, 17

  McDorval, John, 221

  McDougell, James, 222

  McFarlan, Andrew, 289

  McFarlan, John, 148

  Mcffadrick, Andrew, 287

  McGee, J. (3410), 123

  McGinn (3237), 89

  McHugh, (4395), 89

  McInrie, Robert, 146

  McIntosh, Will., 149

  McKechney, Daniel, 289

  McKellar, Patrick, 144

  McKellor, or McKellar(?), K. K., 91, 97

  McKenzie, 129

  McKenzie, Robert, 223

  McKerrall, William, 223

  McKin'll, John, 145

  McKinnell & Ross, Messrs., 109

  McKinnie, John, 146

  McKinnie, Murdock, 146

  McKissock, 129

  McLachlane, Mr., 52, 53

  McLaren, Alexander, 148

  McLauchlan, James, 289

  McLauchlan, John, 289

  McLaughlin, Mrs., 55

  McLean, Allan, 149

  McLean, John, 147

  McLellan, Henry, 144

  McLellan, John, 144

  McLeod, 129

  McLeon, 45

  McLure (4200), 98

  McMath, John, 144

  McMichan, John, 287

  McMillan, Henry, 222

  McNaughton, William, 148, 222

  McNeill, Duncan, 222

  McNicoll (4499), 98

  McPherson (3915), 113, 115

  McPherson, Angus, 289

  McRooney, John, 147

  McVicar, John, 222

  McWalter, Thomas, 222

  Mellish, 99

  Melvill, 7

  Melles, William Eugene, 262

  Menchikoff, Prince, 76, 81, 82, 83

  Menzies, Miss, 155

  Mercer, Laurence, 145

  Mercer, T. (4937), 110

  Merrie, William, 224

  Mick, David, 145

  Middleton, Andrew, 144, 147, 148, 149, 150

  Middleton, G. G., 86, 87, 102, 104, 130

  Middleton, William Crawfurd, 86, 93, 94, 96, 98, 100, 101, 104,
    108, 113, 117, 126, 224, 262

  Miever, Peter, 148

  Milbank, Mark William Vane, 224

  Mill, Robert, 144

  Millais, Hugo W. R., 224

  Miller, 78

  Miller, A. D., 85, 94, 98, 118

  Miller, Alfred Douglas, 224, 262

  Miller, John, 144, 289

  Miller, Patrick, 145

  Miller, Robert, 225

  Miller, William, 225, 289

  Mills, Andrew M., 225

  Mills, John, 225

  Mills, Nicholas, 225

  Milne, S. M., Esq., of Calverley House, 281

  Milne, William, 146

  Milward, George, 140

  Mitchell (4563), 129

  Mitchell, David, 147

  Mitchell, James, 148

  Mitchell, Sir John, 225

  Mitchell, William, 289

  Mochrun, Laird of, 30

  Modena, Mary of, Queen Consort to James ii., 227

  Moir-Byres, Patrick, 225

  Money, Archibald, 225

  Monmouth, Duke of, 4, 5, 6, 7, 17

  Monox, 268

  Monro, George, 147

  Montgomerie, Archibald, Earl of Eglinton, 184

  Montgomerie, Hon. W., 104, 107, 109, 111

  Montgomery, Lady Margaret, 169

  Montgomery-Cunningham, Alexander, 178

  Montgomery-Cunningham, Sir Walter, 178

  Montrose, Marquess of, 17

  Moodie, Daniel, 226

  Moore (4137), 94

  Moore, 263

  Moore, Henry, 226

  Moore, James, 148

  Moore, John, 287

  Moore, Sir John, 155

  Morgan (3313), 94

  Morrice, William, 226

  Morrison, John, 146

  Morrison, Robert, 148

  Mostyn, 267

  Mountcharles, George Henry, Earl of, 226

  Mowitt, Henry, 226

  Muir, John, 146

  Muirhead, Robert, 289

  Mullins, John, 226

  Murcheid, John Groset, 226

  Murdoch, James, 287

  Murdock, William, 289

  Mure, George, 227

  Murray, 18, 143, 146, 147, 152, 162, 281

  Murray, Lord, of Clair, Moulie, and Tillemot, 227

  Murray, Charles, 227

  Murray, Lord Charles, 1st Earl of Dunmore, 227

  Murray, Lord Charles, 208, 216, 259

  Murray, Rt. Hon. Lord Charles, 13, 14, 15, 16, 143, 145, 167, 216,
    227, 259

  Murray, The Hon. Charles Murray, 228

  Murray, Edward, 151, 152

  Murray, The Hon. George Augustus Frederick John, 228

  Murray, Hugh, 149

  Murray, James, 143, 146, 147, 162, 228

  Murray, Jean (eldest daughter of James Murray, 2nd Duke of Atholl), 177

  Murray, John, 144, 145, 147, 228

  Murray, John (elder), 146

  Murray, John (yr.), 146

  Murray, Mungo, 146

  Murray, Peter, 289

  Murray, Walter, 145

  Murray, William, 229, 287


  Napier, 223, 259

  Napier, Hon. William (afterwards Lord), 229

  Napier, William (Lord Napier), 206, 223, 229, 233

  Napier, William, 199, 210, 229, 245, 259

  Napoleon, _see_ Bonaparte

  Nathan (3647), 98

  Nazemere, 26

  Neal, J. (2508), 128

  Nelson, Lord, 50

  Nelson, Michael, 229

  Nesbit, James, 229

  Newberry (3615), 94

  Newberry (4145), 94

  Newbiggin, 2nd Baronet of, _see_ Livingston, Sir Thomas

  Ney, 61

  Nicholson, Clement Octavius, 262

  Nicholson, David, 229

  Nimmeguen, Macktellina Walrave de, 218

  Nisbet, Sir John, 229

  Nisbet, John, 229

  Noailles, 38

  Noble, T. (3946), 129, 131

  Norman, Charles, 230

  Norman, M. de, 46

  North, The Honourable Francis, 4th Earl of Guilford, 230

  Northey, A., 111

  Nova Scotia, Baronet of, 231

  Nova Scotia, 2nd Baronet of, _see_ Hay, Sir Thomas, Bart.

  Nugent, 78

  Nugent, Andrew, 230


  O'Brien, Edward, 230

  O'Brien, Horace Stafford, 230

  Ochom, 269

  Ogilvie, Walter, 231

  Ogilvie, William, 231

  Ogilvy, Sir John, of Inverquharity, 230

  Ogilvy, Sir John, 5th Baronet, 231

  Ogleby, Lord, 17;
    _see_ Airly

  O'Hara, James, _see_ Hozier, Frances Ann

  Oliphant (3782), 97

  Oliphantt, Stephen, 287

  Oram, William Henry, 231

  Orange, Prince of, 17, 18, 58, 218, 235, 288

  Orange, Princess of, 17

  Orkney, Earl of, 27

  Oswald, G. (3087), 109

  Otway, C., 93, 100

  Oughton, 281

  Owen, Hugh, 231


  Pace, John, 147

  Pack, Sir Denis, 288

  Padget (4646), 108

  Pagan, Thomas, 146

  Page, Andrew, 144

  Page (Farmer), 275

  Paibles, John, 149

  Paibles, Thomas, 149

  Paine, James, 146

  Panmure, Lord, 271, 272

  Panmure, Wm., Earl of, 231, 236

  Park, David, 144

  Park, Richard, 231

  Parker, 282

  Parker, H. C. T., 94, 111, 115, 126

  Parr, Thomas Philip, 232

  Parry, Richard, 232

  Parton, 129

  Pasha, Reshid, 196

  Paterson, Rev. W., 94

  Paterson, Walter, 161, 232

  Pattan, William, 287

  Patterson, James, 148

  Paulet, George, 232

  Pawson, C. R., 106, 124, 126

  Payne, Edward, 232

  Peaston, John, 232

  Peden, Gavin, 232

  Pegler (4229), 94

  Pelly, Sir Henry Carstairs, 3rd Baronet, son of Sir John Henry, 2nd
    Baronet, High Sheriff of Cambridge and Hunts., 232

  Pemberton, Abraham, 233

  Pennicuik, Patrick, 146

  Perrot, G. W., 233

  Perry, William, 253

  Perston, 269

  Peters (4042), 93

  Peters, John Godfrey, 233

  Petrie, James, 148

  Pettigrew, Alexander, 233

  Pettigrew, William, 278

  Pettigrew, William (sen.), 233

  Pettigrew, William (junr.), 233

  Philips, Francis Maitland, 233

  Phillips, 270

  Phillips, Frederick, 233

  Phillipson, 282

  Philp, Francis Lamb, 234

  Picter, David, 289

  Picton, Sir Thomas, 288

  Pigott, George Edward Graham Foster, 234

  Pigott, Henry Thomas Coward Smyth, 234

  Pilcher, 87

  Pilgrim, Charles, 234

  Pilkington, 98

  Pirie, John, 149

  Platoff, Hetman, 51

  Plumer, 116

  Pocock, 157

  Poland, Augustus, King of, 247

  Pollock, Arthur, 289

  Pollock, Charlton, 234

  Pollock, Laird of, 18, 164

  Ponsonby, Sir W., 62, 68, 72

  Ponsonby, Sir William, 288

  Poole, 73

  Poole, James, 234

  Porteous, David Scott, 234

  Porter, 88

  Porter (4185), 103

  Portmore, David, Earl of, 170

  Portteous, John, 287

  Pott (4172), 90, 127

  Powell (3975), 97

  Pownie, William, 149

  Prendergast, Lenox, 78, 235

  Prentis, William Taylor, 235

  Preston, 236, 282, 295

  Preston, Charles, 181, 235

  Preston, George, 236

  Preston, George (or John), 235, 240

  Preston, Robert, 236

  Preston, William, 236

  Preston, William, of Gorton, 235

  Pretender, the Old, 36

  Pretorius, 128

  Price, George Barrington, 236

  Priestley, Luke, 289

  Pringle, Alexander, 236

  Pringle, James, 144

  Pringle, William, 150

  Proctor (3819), 97

  Proudfoot, Andrew, 148

  Prussia, King of, 26, 51

  Pulleine, Henry P., 237

  Pulteney, 109

  Purvis, George, 144

  Purvis, John, 237

  Pye, 67


  Queen, Her Majesty the, 89, 90

  Queensberry, Duke of, 9

  Quinn (or Quinn) (4497), 108, 131


  Radulphus, Baron, of Kinnaird, 213

  Raglan, Lord, 79, 80, 81, 82

  Ramage, 252

  Ramage (3688), 94

  Ramsay, 198, 201, 226, 229, 230, 241, 272, 275, 278

  Ramsay, Balcarres, 263

  Ramsay, Balcarres Wardlaw, 237

  Ramsay, George (or George Balfour), 160, 198, 201, 226, 229, 230,
    237, 241;
    _see_ Balfour, George

  Ramsay, James, 237

  Ramsay, R. B. Wardlaw, 42

  Ramsay, R. G. Wardlaw, of Whitehall, 263

  Ramsay, Robert, 145

  Ramsaye, Jaems, 145

  Rankin, 266

  Ratcliffe, George, 237

  Rathdonnell, Lord, 262

  Rathoon, William (elder), 148

  Rathoon, William (yr.), 148

  Rattray, 154

  Rattray, George, 228, 237

  Raufield, Robert, 237

  Rawlins, Henry, 237

  Rawlinson, William, 144

  Rayburn, John, 289

  Rayfield, Robert, 148

  Razivile, Lord John, 283

  Regent, Prince, 51

  Reid (4351), 90

  Reid, George, 238

  Reid, Henry, 238

  Reid, W. (4880), 133

  Reid, William, 144

  Reignolds, 222

  Reignolds, Thomas, 238

  Rennie, George, 289

  Renton, Alexander L., 238

  Renton, Mark, 238

  Reynolds, T., 289

  Rhodes, J. F., 93, 111, 132

  Ricardo, 99

  Rich, Sir Robert, 40

  Richards, Arthur William Mordaunt, 238

  Richmond, Charlotte, Duchess of (wife of 4th Duke of Gordon and
    Lennox), 288

  Richmond, Duke of, 63, 270, 288

  Richmond, James, 238

  Ricketts, St. Vincent William, 239

  Riddle, George James, 239

  Ritchie, D. (4253), 132

  Roacheard (or Rochied), John, 239

  Roberts, Lord, 89, 91, 92

  Robertson, Andrew, 239

  Robertson, Charles Gray, 239

  Robertson, John, 147, 289

  Robertson, Patrick, 160, 182, 189, 212, 239

  Robertson, Thomas, 289

  Robinson, 36, 239

  Robinson, George, 151

  Robinson, Patt., 287

  Robinson, William, 240

  Robisone, Quintine, 287

  Rodgers (4053), 95

  Rodgers (3315), 103

  Rolland, David, 289

  Romans, King of the, 28

  Ronnan, Thomas, 287

  Rose, James, 289

  Rosebery, Lord, _inset facing_ p. 85

  Ross, 25, 27, 32

  Ross (3297), 88

  Ross, George Campbell, 240

  Ross, Hugh, 240

  Ross, James, 240

  Ross, James Clarke, 240

  Ross, Master of, 14

  Ross, "Mother"; _see_ Davies

  Ross or Rosse, Andrew, 143, 144

  Ross of Muick, Andrew, 151, 152

  Ross, Thomas Milne, 114

  Rosse, Andrew, of Newark, 240

  Rothes, Earl of, 5, 40

  Rowe, 25

  Rowe, John Henry Raymond, 240

  Rowley, William, 240

  Roy, 129

  Ruleau, 270

  Russel, A. F., 85

  Russell (or Ross), John, 240

  Russell, Sir B. C., 257

  Russia, Czar of, 51, 284

  Russia, Nicholas ii., His Imperial Majesty, Emperor of, 229

  Rutherford, Adam, 144

  Rutherford, James, 147

  Ruthven, John, 147


  Sackville, Lord George, 42, 44, 267, 270

  St. Andrew's, Archbishop of, 6, 11

  St. Arnaud, 83

  St. Clair, Hon. Archibald J. M., 86, 98, 126, 244

  St. Clair, or Sinclair, Wm., 245

  St. Clear, James, 241

  St. Paul, 25

  Salwey, Henry, 241

  Sampson, Patrick, 145

  Sanderson, Patrick, 241

  Sandford, William Robert Wills, 241

  Sandilands, Hon. Alexander, 241

  Sandys, Lord, 241

  Sanford, George, 241, 258

  Sawyer, John, 290

  Sawyer (or Swayer), Walter, 241

  Scarlett, 77

  Schouls, James, 242

  Schybee, 267

  Scobell, Henry Jenner, 87, 91, 93, 98, 101, 102, 106, 118, 121,
    126, 135, 242

  Scobell, Henry Sales, 242

  Scot, 74

  Scott (4447), 116

  Scott, 129

  Scott, Carolus Frederick, 242

  Scott, Charles, 242

  Scott, Frederick W. A., 242

  Scott, George Thomas, 242

  Scott, James, 242

  Scott, John, 146, 148, 290

  Scott, Robert, 243

  Scott, Sir Walter, 30, 157

  Scott, Walter, 146

  Scott, Wm., husband of Magdalene Blair of Blair, 164;
    Scott, Wm., son of, 164

  Scudder (3873), 98

  Seggie, Samuel, 243

  Selwyn, Henry, 243

  Semorvil, William, 149

  Senior, John, 290

  Seton, Alexander, Viscount Kingstoun, 243, 249

  Seymour, Archibald George, 86, 106, 126, 243

  Seymour, H., 66

  Shapter, William R., 243

  Sharp, 129

  Shawe, John Wingfield, 244

  Sheen, George, 213

  Sheill, James, 144

  Sheldon, Edward R. C., 244

  Shirilaw, William, 287

  Shudrack, James, 289

  Shuldham, L., 289

  Shuldham, Samuel, 244.

  Shuttleworth, James, 244

  Sibthorpe, Charles De Laet Waldo, 244

  Sim (4554), 98

  Simm, Thomas, 148

  Simmons, John, 290

  Simon, 288

  Simpson, Francis Blake, 244

  Simpsone, John, 287

  Simpsone, William, 287

  Sinclair, Edward, 148

  Sinclair, Master of, 244

  Sinclair or St. Clair, William, 245

  Skeen, Charles, 245

  Skeen, George, 245, 248

  Skene, David, 245

  Smart, John, 146

  Smith (4445), 103

  Smith, 179

  Smith, Charles Sergison, 245

  Smith, James, 290

  Smith, John, 148, 287

  Smith, Patrick, 165, 166, 241

  Smith, Patrick (or Peter), 245

  Smith, Peter, 245

  Smith, Robert, 145, 148

  Smith, Thomas, 149

  Smith, William, 150

  Smyth, George Ralph, 245

  Smyth, Robert Dunkin, 246

  Smyth, William, 147

  Solson (or Sohon), John, 246

  Somerset, Lord Edward, 288

  Somerville, James Richard, 246

  Soote, Cecil Speid, 246

  Spearman, 87

  Speed, John, 147

  Spence, George, 144

  Sperring, 114

  Spicer, William, 246

  Spittal, Alexander, 246

  Spocken, 270

  Spooner, William D., 246

  Sprot, J. M. F., 134

  Stair, Earl of, 35, 38, 160, 177, 182, 192, 214, 246

  Stanhope, Jane St. Maur Blanche (only daughter and heiress of
    Charles Stanhope, 4th Earl of Harrington), 226

  Staniland, Charles Arthur, 247

  Stanley, Lady Amelia Sophia, daughter of the 7th Earl of Derby, 227

  Stansfield, John, 247

  Staples, Lawrence, 247

  Staviley, 282

  Stead, George, 146

  Steele, David, 296

  Steele, John, 247

  Steele, Mary, 296

  Steele, Walter Scott, 247

  Steill, George, 287

  Steuart, Alexander, 144

  Steuart, Sir James, 289

  Steuart, John, 144

  Steuart, John (called John Roy), 248

  Stevenson, C. B., 248

  Stevenson, David, 144

  Stevenson, Robert, 146

  Stewart, 202, 248

  Stewart, Alexander, 145

  Stewart, H. (3208), 116

  Stewart, Sir James, 54

  Stewart, Sir James, Bart., 248

  Stewart, James, 248

  Stewart, John Lorn, 248

  Stewart, Ludovic, 149

  Stewart, Patrick, 149

  Stewart, William, 145

  Stewart, William Drummond, 249

  Steuarts, of Kincardine, 248

  Stewartt, James, 287

  Stewartt, Robertt, 287

  Stewartt, William, 287

  Stimson, John, 148

  Stirling, Heugh, 144

  Stirrat(?) (4338), 89

  Stobo, John, 249

  Stoddard, David, 290

  Stoddard, George, 146

  Stoddart, John Herbert Randall, 249

  Stokes, J. (3735), 110

  Stoney, Andrew Acres, 249

  Storeyson, Robert, 149

  Storeyson, Thomas, 149

  Storie, William, 290

  Storo, Ffrancis or ffrancis, 149

  Storroth, William, 149

  Stovie, George, 148

  Strachan, John, 2, 3, 143, 148, 149, 182, 184, 215, 217, 228, 249

  Streighton, 17

  Stringer, J. Lobb, 249

  Stuart, Francis, 2, 6, 7, 10, 259

  Stuart, Francis (of Coldingham), 249

  Stuart, Francis Stuart, 177

  Stubbs, 268

  Stupart, Francis, 250

  Sturges, William, 250

  Styrum, Count, 26

  Sulivan, George Augustus Filmer, 250

  Sullivan, H. A., 85, 89

  Sutherland, 78

  Sutherland (3354), 89

  Sutherland, Francis, 250

  Sutherland, William, 147, 290

  Suttie, Catherine, daughter of Sir George Suttie, Bart., 203

  Suttie, Sir George, 203

  Swadle, Cuthbert, 250

  Swan, James, 52, 54

  Sweeting, J. (3939), 127

  Swetenham, Foster, 85, 100, 250

  Swinburne, John Denis, 250

  Swindley, John Edward, 250

  Sybourg, 33


  Tait, Catherine, 164

  Taite, 263, 267

  Taitt, Thomas, 287

  Tallard, 24, 25

  Tam, Mathew, 146

  Tarth, Thomas, 149

  Taube, Count, 270

  Taylor, Charles George Harrington, 251

  Taylor, John, 287

  Taylor, Robert, 290

  Taylor, Thomas, 290

  Telfer, 198, 226, 271

  Telfer, James, 178, 198, 226, 251

  Telford (4607), 131

  Tellfoord, James, 287

  Tennent, Robert, 201

  Teviot or Tiviot, Lord, 19, 22, 202, 218

  Teviot, Viscount of, 218

  Teviott, Viscount of, 287

  Teylleour, William, 148

  Teyllieur, Ritchard, 145

  Thatcher, James, 148

  Theresa, Maria, 37

  Thomas, F. Tracey, 251

  Thomas, James, 140

  Thompson (4071), 87

  Thompson, Carrier, 251

  Thompson, David, 147

  Thompson, James, 251

  Thompson, John, 147

  Thompson, Meysey, 121

  Thompson, Mungo, 144

  Thompson, R., 91, 95

  Thomson, Andrew, 144

  Thomson, Charles Frederic St. Clair Anstruther, 251

  Thomson, William Seaman, 252

  Thomsone, James, 149

  Thomsone, John, 149, 287

  Thornton, Henry, 252

  Tichborne, 32

  Tolson, John, 252

  Tonyn, 282

  Torphichen, 8th Lord, 241

  Torrens, J. A. (letter from), 292

  Torrens, John Arthur Wellesley O'Neill, 252

  Tosh, 94

  Trafford, Thomas William, 252

  Trevin, John, 146

  Tristram, 99

  Trollope, Bernard, 252

  Trotter, 54, 69, 266

  Trotter, Alexander, 253

  Trotter, Archibald, 252

  Trotter, John, 252

  Trotter, T., 289

  Trotter, Thomas, 253

  Truwant, John, 290

  Tullieph, Charlotte, eldest daughter of Dr. Walter Tullieph, 231

  Turnbull, Adame, 146

  Turnbull, Lashbrown, 148

  Turnbull, Richard, 146, 253

  Turner, Sir James, Bart., 14, 143, 146, 147, 184, 213, 228, 253

  Turner, John, 146

  Turner, Patrick, 146

  Turnor, Cecil Algernon Brooke, 254

  Turnor, George, 290

  Tumor, John, 290

  Tweeddale, Marquis of, 202

  Tweeddale, 2nd Marquis of, 22, 202

  Twisden, Frances (daughter of Sir William Twisden, 6th Baronet of
    Roydon), 185

  Twist, Lord Viscount, 202

  Twynholm (3726), 87

  Twysden, Louis John Francis, 254


  Uffenbach, 267

  Une, Mr., 53

  Uniacke, Charles Hill, 254

  Urff, 268, 270

  Urie, John, 290

  Urquhart, Charles Gordon, 254

  Ussher, Edward, 85, 105, 115, 126, 132, 254, 262

  Uxbridge, Earl of, 58, 62, 65, 66, 72, 288


  Valentine (4002), 103

  Vandeleur, Sir J., 65

  Vanmorgan, John, 287

  Vaudemont, Prince of, 20

  Vaughan, P. M., 91

  Vaughan-Williams, Gwendoline Lucy, youngest daughter of the Right
    Hon. Sir Edward Vaughan-Williams, 223

  Verelest, Henry, 254

  Vernon, or Verner(?), 71, 73

  Vernon, Robert, 254

  Villeroy, 21

  Vivian, Sir Hussey, 288


  Wachop, Andrew, 251, 255

  Wacker, John, 145

  Wacker, William, 147

  Wadell, Archbal, 145

  Wagenheim, 269

  Wake (3467), 94

  Waldegrave, 268, 270

  Wale, Henry John, 255

  Wales, Prince of, 90, 176

  Walker, Alexander, 290

  Walker, Thomas, 255

  Walker, William, 255

  Walkingshaw, John, 255

  Wallace, Francis James Agnew, 255

  Wallace, Sir William, Bart., 285

  Walton, Emanuel, 255

  Ward, John Richard, 255

  Ward, Robert, 145

  Ward, Thomas, 255

  Ward, William, 145

  Warde, 282

  Wark, Lord Gray of, 5

  Washington, George, 189

  Waterer (3983), 103

  Watkins, Charles Fitzgerald, 255

  Watson (3517), 89

  Watson, 270

  Watson, David, 182, 183

  Watson, James, 256

  Watson, John, 146

  Watson, W. D. P., 99

  Watson, William, 147

  Watson, William Donald Paul, 256

  Watt, 267

  Watt (4216), 89

  Watt, John, 147

  Watt, Robert, 150

  Watteville, 185

  Watts, Catherine, daughter of Richard Watts, of Hereford, 227

  Wauchope, William, 256

  Waugh, Robert, 256

  Webb, 26

  Wedderburne, 184, 193

  Wedderburne, John, 214, 228

  Wedderburne, John, of Gosford, 164, 193, 214, 228, 256

  Wedersburnes, 285

  Weir, 74

  Weir, John, 287, 289

  Weir, William, 256

  Welby, A. C. E., 256;
    (letter from), 293;
    "Bonnie Scots Greys," 293-4

  Welch, Christopher;
    _see_ Davies

  Welderen, 203

  Wellesley, Elizabeth, daughter of Richard Wellesley, 1st Baron
    Mornington, 219

  Wellington, Duke of, 57, 287, 288

  Wellstead (3035), 94

  Welsh, G. (4818), 132

  Welsh, Richard, 32

  Wemyss, 73

  Wemyss, James, 256, 260

  Westby, Edward, 257, 289

  Westby, Jocelyn Tate, 257

  Weymss, James, 144

  Whindham, 71

  White (4268), 94

  White (3588), 107

  White, Robert, 257

  Whitefoord, John, 257

  Whitney, 193

  Whitton, John, 290

  Whytford, John, 143, 149

  Wickham, Thomas, 257

  Wigley, Henry, 257

  Wildes, George F. G., 257

  Wilkies, 25

  Wilkinson, 91, 94, 104, 292

  Wilkinson, William, 257

  William iii., King, 17, 18, 19, 20, 36, 38, 164, 235

  William, King, 164

  William, King, the Lion, 213

  Williams, 78

  Williams, Charles, 257

  Williams, Colonel Coventry, 258;
    letters sent to, from Major Ker Fox (enclosing letter from William
      Knox), 291;
    from Montague Johnstone and J. A. Torrens, 292;
    from H. S., 292, 293;
    from A. C. E. Welby, 293

  Williams, Samuel Toosey, 258

  Williamson, David, 144

  Willie, David, 266

  Willson, 268

  Willson, George, 146

  Wilson, 9, 270

  Wilson, --, 258

  Wilson, A. W., 258

  Wilson, George Wingfield, 258

  Wilson, John, 78, 259

  Wilson, Robert, 146

  Wilsone, John, 148

  Wimraham, George, 259

  Wing, 131

  Winram, Thomas, 259

  Winterscale, John, 259

  Winton, George, 3rd Earl of, 243

  Wolfe, Richard, 259

  Wolseley, Viscount, 90

  Wood, 25, 26

  Wood, Alexander, 144, 149

  Wood, Andrew, 259

  Wood, Gavin, 146

  Wood, George, 149

  Wood, John, 149, 259

  Wooddrop, William Allen, 259

  Wotherspoon, Peter, 290

  Wright, David, 144

  Wright, John, 148

  Wrightt, George, 287

  Wylderman, John, 148

  Wylie, Andrew, 290

  Wyndham, Alexander Wadham, 260

  Wyndham, Charles, 260

  Wynne, George, 260

  Wynram, Thomas, 143, 144


  Yeats, John (elder), 146

  Yeats, John (yr.), 146

  Yeats, Robert, 146

  Yooll, Robert, 150

  York, Duke of, 48, 49, 75, 152, 156

  Yorke, 79

  Young (4270), 99

  Young, Andrew, 146

  Young, Robert, 145, 290

  Young, Thomas, 260

  Younger, Alexander, 147




  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES


  Corrected Errata on p. xi in the text.

  Corrected Addenda to List of Officers Past and Present on p. 261 in
  the text.

  Missing words or unexplained blank sections on pp. 70, 233, 238,
  and 283 indicated by gaps in the text.

  Changed 2th to 12th, 5th to 15th, and 6th to 16th on p. 86.

  Silently corrected simple spelling, grammar, and typographical
  errors.

  Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.

  Enclosed italics markup in _underscores_.

  Enclosed small caps markup in +plus signs+.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The History of the 2nd Dragoons 'Royal
Scots Greys', by Edward Almack

